Arab News Saturday . June 20, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Saudi Arabia World Russia says it repelled drone attack on oil refinery in Tyumen region Previous Pause Next Home Pakistan interior minister arrives in Iran Pakistan interior minister arrives in Iran UPDATE Pakistan's Interior Minister Mohsin Naqvi arrives in Iran. (Screenshot/X) Short Url https://arab.news/n5a87 Updated 20 June 2026 18:33 AFP June 20, 2026 10:58 Follow Naqvi is expected meet his Iranian counterpart Eskandar Momeni, as well as Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi for talks during the visit TEHRAN: Pakistan’s interior minister arrived in Iran on Saturday after planned talks between Iran and the US in Switzerland were postponed, Iranian media reported. Tehran and Washington were due to hold talks in Switzerland on Friday, after signing a memorandum of understanding ending the war in the Middle East, but the latest negotiations have been postponed until Sunday. Iranian media including Tasnim news agency said Pakistan’s Interior Minister Mohsin Naqvi landed on Saturday in the northeastern city of Mashhad. Foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baghaei had earlier told ISNA news agency that “Pakistan’s interior minister will arrive in Iran at noon today, Saturday, as part of Pakistan’s efforts regarding the Iran-US negotiations.” Naqvi is expected meet his Iranian counterpart Eskandar Momeni, as well as Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi for talks during the visit, according to Baghaei. Pakistan has been a key mediator between Tehran and Washington, with Qatar also joining the efforts in the run-up to the deal announced this week. The war began on February 28 with US-Israeli strikes that killed supreme leader Ali Khamenei and several senior military commanders. Iran retaliated with missile and drone strikes that drew in countries across in the region, before an April truce halted the worst of the fighting. Iran on Thursday announced it signed a deal with the United States to end the hostilities, with the aim of holding further negotiations on a broader deal that would include Iran’s long contested nuclear program. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE Pakistan interior minister arrives in Iran UPDATE Iran talks to begin Sunday in Switzerland, Tehran closes Hormuz over Lebanon fighting Latest Updates Bolivian president declares state of emergency after weeks of protests Shahidi hits ton but India bowl out Afghanistan for 218 Iran talks to begin Sunday in Switzerland, Tehran closes Hormuz over Lebanon fighting Russia says it repelled drone attack on oil refinery in Tyumen region One dead after freight trains collide in Munich Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges EN
