Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Business & Economy Saudi Arabia raises $2.81bn in June sukuk issuance, monthly rise of 340% Iran’s parliament speaker says only countries in the region should decide Middle East security Previous Pause Next Home UN nuclear agency boss signals that inspectors will visit Iran’s nuclear sites UN nuclear agency boss signals that inspectors will visit Iran’s nuclear sites Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 40 secondsVolume 0% International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi speaks during a meeting with Tokyo Electric Power Company Holdings officials at Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Okuma, Fukushima pferfecture, Japan. (AP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/673he Updated 24 June 2026 11:31 AP June 24, 2026 05:09 Follow The US and Iran offered contradictory remarks Tuesday about whether those sites would be inspected TOKYO: The head of the UN’s nuclear agency signaled Wednesday that Iranian nuclear enrichment sites would be visited by his inspectors, a key component in the interim deal between the United States and Iran to reach an end to the war. The comment by International Atomic Energy Agency head Rafael Mariano Grossi was the firmest yet from the United Nations agency, which is viewed as key in determining the status of Iran’s nuclear stockpile. Since Israel launched a 12-day war on Iran in 2025, the IAEA has been blocked by Tehran from visiting enrichment sites where the Islamic Republic is believed to store enough highly enriched uranium to potentially build as many as 10 nuclear weapons, should it choose to rush for the bomb. Iran long has maintained that its program is peaceful, though it is the only country in the world to have uranium enriched up to 60 percent purity without a weapons program. The US and Iran offered contradictory remarks Tuesday about whether those sites would be inspected. “I can understand political statements, they are part of the reality, but the fundamental thing I would like to remind you and draw your attention to is that there has been a Memorandum of Understanding, signed by both presidents,” Grossi told journalists at a news conference at the tsunami-hit Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. The accord “explicitly states that the nuclear activities that are going to be carried out with the regards of the nuclear material facilities will be supervised by the IAEA — in all letters,” he said. Grossi added: “Obviously, to do that, we have to inspect. Whether this happens the day after tomorrow or in one week or in ten days, it’s important, but not essential. This is going to happen.” Those inspections are key for the deal, which calls for Iran’s stockpile of uranium to be “downblended” from highly enriched levels. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IAEA RELATED VIDEO Pakistan eyes formal energy trade with Tehran after helping ease US-Iran tensions Trump administration touts Iran deal as a payday for US farmers, but Iran denies it Latest Updates Oman opens temporary Strait of Hormuz shipping routes, says no tolls will be charged Saudi Arabia raises $2.81bn in June sukuk issuance, monthly rise of 340% Iran’s parliament speaker says only countries in the region should decide Middle East security UK, France, Germany express concern about Chinese activities off eastern Taiwan Spanish PM denies ‘widespread’ government corruption after ex-top aide jailed Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
