Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Business & Economy Jordan’s economy grows 2.9% in Q1 Previous Pause Next Home Israel defense minister says troops to stay ‘indefinitely’ in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza Israel defense minister says troops to stay ‘indefinitely’ in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza Israel's Defense Minister Israel Katz attends a meeting with US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth at the Pentagon in Washington, DC, US. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/yndaa Updated 01 July 2026 12:59 AFP July 01, 2026 09:53 Follow Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, have repeatedly ruled out withdrawing troops from southern Lebanon JERUSALEM: Israel’s defense minister said Wednesday that Israeli forces would remain in self-proclaimed “security zones” established in Lebanon, Syria and Gaza, without any timeline for withdrawal. “The IDF will remain in the security zones in Lebanon, Syria and Gaza indefinitely in order to protect our residents and communities from jihadist elements,” Israel Katz said. “We will not withdraw from the security zones,” Katz said at function held in honor of Israeli soldiers killed during the 2006 war in Lebanon. Katz also reiterated an earlier warning to Iran, saying the Islamic republic would be struck with “full force” if it attacked Israel over its operations in Lebanon. Israel and Lebanon signed a US-sponsored framework agreement under US sponsorship on Friday to pave the way for peace between the two countries and disarm Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah. Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, have repeatedly ruled out withdrawing troops from southern Lebanon, where Israeli forces continue to clash with Hezbollah fighters. They maintain that any troop withdrawal would happen only after Hezbollah has been disarmed across Lebanon. Hezbollah drew Lebanon into the Middle East war in early March with rocket fire aimed at Israel to avenge the killing of Iran’s supreme leader in US-Israeli strikes. Israel responded with massive airstrikes and a ground invasion of southern Lebanon. According to Lebanon’s health ministry, nearly 4,300 people have been killed in Israeli attacks since the war erupted. The Israeli military says it has lost 38 soldiers and one civilian contractor in Lebanon since fighting began in early March. Israel has also carried out repeated incursions and bombings in Syria since the overthrow of longtime ruler Bashar Assad, saying it seeks to establish a demilitarised zone in the country’s south. In Gaza, Israeli forces occupy nearly 70 percent of the territory. Both the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas and the Israeli military accuse each other of violating the ceasefire, which has been in effect since October last year. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON WAR ON GAZA SYRIA RELATED ANALYSIS Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? Israeli troops face resistance from residents as they push into a town in Syria Latest Updates Israel defense minister says troops to stay ‘indefinitely’ in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza France introduces extra parental leave to boost birth rates Two people die from suffocation during World Cup celebrations in Mexico Jordan’s economy grows 2.9% in Q1 Sweden activists plan climate demo weeks before election Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency EN
