Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Offbeat Fears grow for civilians as paramilitary group closes in on strategic Sudanese city Previous Pause Next Home Israel, Lebanon discuss US-backed proposal for transfer of some southern territory to Lebanese army Israel, Lebanon discuss US-backed proposal for transfer of some southern territory to Lebanese army UPDATE Above, a displaced family with their belongings, return to their village following a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in the southern port city of Sidon, Lebanonon June 23, 2026. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/jc54v Updated 24 June 2026 10:34 REUTERS June 24, 2026 09:54 Follow Lebanese ‚Äåtroops involved ‚Äåwould undergo US training and vetting to ‚Äåensure they are not linked to ‚ÅÝHezbollah JERUSALEM/BEIRUT: Talks between Israel and Lebanon include discussion of a US-backed proposal for Israeli forces to hand over some of ‚Äãthe territory they have invaded during the war with Hezbollah to the Lebanese military, according to Israeli and Lebanese officials. The Israeli officials said the Lebanese troops involved would undergo US training and vetting to ensure they are not linked to Iran-backed Hezbollah, while Israel would maintain a military presence in a buffer zone along the ‚Äåborder. The proposed ‚Äúpilot‚Äù ‚Äåproject is being discussed in ‚Äãthe latest ‚Äåround ‚ÅÝof talks ‚Äãbetween Lebanese ‚ÅÝand Israeli officials, which got underway in Washington on Tuesday. Rejected by Hezbollah, this diplomatic track has been overshadowed as Tehran has made Lebanon a focal point of its negotiations with the US. Asked about the Israeli officials‚Äô comments, a senior Lebanese security official said discussions were ongoing in Washington ‚ÅÝand that Wednesday would see specific military-to-military discussions, ‚Äåincluding on the pilot zones. The ‚ÄåLebanese official said the discussions ‚Äãwould focus on a timeline ‚Äåfor withdrawal and that any plan would emerge only after ‚Äåthe final day of talks on Thursday. The official did not respond to a request for comment on the Israeli officials‚Äô account of US vetting of Lebanese troops. The latest war between ‚ÄåHezbollah and Israel erupted when the group opened fire at Israel in solidarity with ‚ÅÝTehran in ‚ÅÝthe early days of the US-Israeli war on Iran. A ceasefire has largely held since Sunday, even as Israeli forces have remained deployed deep inside southern Lebanon, where they have seized a self-declared security zone, saying they need this to shield northern Israel from a Hezbollah attack. The interim agreement signed by Iran and the US last week requires both countries and their allies to declare an immediate and permanent end of military operations on all fronts, including ‚ÄãLebanon, and to ensure ‚ÄãLebanon‚Äôs ‚Äúterritorial integrity and sovereignty.‚Äù Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED Hezbollah chief demands full timetabled Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon Lebanon president rejects Israeli occupation, foreign interference as Washington talks begin Latest Updates Iran‚Äôs top diplomat speaks with Hamas Right-winger Fujimori poised to win Peru president runoff Key Starmer ally Jones rules himself out of contest to be Britain‚Äôs next PM Oil extends slide on expectations of smoother crude flows via Hormuz H5 bird flu detected in second Australia state Editor‚Äôs Choice WORLD What UK‚Äôs change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah‚Äôs influence ‚Äî the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
