Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East Saudi Arabia World Cape Verde goalkeeper Vozinha seeks new club after World Cup stardom, doesn’t rule out Brazil move Previous Pause Next Home Just 1 in 4 Americans believes Iran war was worth its costs, poll finds Just 1 in 4 Americans believes Iran war was worth its costs, poll finds Delegation staff members meet on the day of a quadrilateral meeting between the US, Iran, Pakistan and Qatar at Lake Lucerne, Switzerland as part of high-level talks aimed at advancing a deal to end the Middle East conflict. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/9nagx Updated 24 June 2026 22:53 AP June 24, 2026 22:38 Follow Only 23 percent of Americans — including just half of Republicans — think the US is now in a stronger position with Iran compared with its position before the war, the ‌poll found WASHINGTON: Just one in four Americans believes the war with Iran was worth its costs and a majority worry that a truce with Tehran is unlikely to last, a Reuters/Ipsos poll found. The five-day poll, which closed on Monday, also showed the war weighing heavily on President Donald Trump’s popularity, with his approval rating dropping to 34 percent, a return to the lowest level of the Republican’s second term that was last touched in an April survey. Only 23 percent of Americans — including just half of Republicans — think the US is now in a stronger position with Iran compared with its position before the war, the ‌poll found. Some ‌35 percent of respondents think it is in a weaker position. The rest ‌said they were not sure or that the US position was about the same as before. Trump and Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian signed a preliminary deal on June 17 that would reopen oil and gas shipping lanes that were frozen by the conflict, while easing US-led economic pressure on Iran. The deal has led to a rapid drop in global crude oil prices, although for most Americans the price of gasoline remains considerably higher than it was before the Feb. 28 US-Israeli strikes that started the war. Iran responded to the initial attack with strikes that shut down a fifth of the global oil trade and damaged energy facilities of US regional allies. Only 24 percent of Americans think the war with ‌Iran was worth the costs, the Reuters/Ipsos poll showed. Half of the poll respondents said the conflict was not worth ‌it and the rest were unsure. Some 63 percent of Americans think it is unlikely that the deal Trump signed ‌will lead to lasting peace between the two countries. About half of Republicans and eight in 10 Democrats said the deal was unlikely to deliver peace. Just 18 percent of Americans — including 10 percent of Democrats and 34 percent of Republicans — see lasting peace as likely. Trump won the 2024 presidential election after promising to reduce inflation and keep America out of costly ‌foreign wars. His political brand has long leaned on his background as a deal-making real estate developer and reality television star. Trump’s approval rating on the cost of living, at 22 percent, was near the lowest level of his presidency and below the rating of his Democratic predecessor in the White House, Joe Biden, at the end of his presidency. Trump started his current term with a 47 percent approval rating, but his popularity has suffered amid high rates of inflation as well as controversy over his aggressive efforts to deport people in the country illegally, which have included deadly confrontations with pro-immigration activists. His falling popularity could weigh on his Republican allies when they defend their congressional majorities in the November 3 midterm elections. The Reuters/Ipsos poll showed that just 17 percent of independent registered voters said they would vote for the Republican in their district if the election were held today, compared with 34 percent who said they would pick the Democrat. The latest Reuters/Ipsos poll showed just 37 percent of Americans approved of how Trump has handled immigration, the lowest of his term and down from 40 percent in the prior Reuters/Ipsos poll. The latest poll gathered responses from 1,262 US adults nationwide and its results had a margin of error of 3 percentage points in either direction. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN AMERICANS RELATED As America 250 approaches, fewer Americans see their country as exceptional, AP-NORC poll finds Many Americans question Trump’s temperament amid war, pope spat Latest Updates Two-goal Ronaldo delights in silencing critics after ‘attacks’ Western Europe bakes under a ‘heat dome’ Infantino says World Cup hydration breaks purely sporting, not commercial Cape Verde goalkeeper Vozinha seeks new club after World Cup stardom, doesn’t rule out Brazil move Saudi authorities dedicate $4.3bn to urban projects in Makkah Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
