Arab News Monday . June 22, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Business & Economy Middle East Tourism demand in Makkah, Madinah not dampened by regional conflict, says Knight Frank Previous Pause Next Home Mediators announce a new de-conflicting mechanism aimed at containing violence in Lebanon Mediators announce a new de-conflicting mechanism aimed at containing violence in Lebanon A “de-confliction cell,” between the parties and the Lebanese authorities has also been set up to prevent fighting from erupting again, they said. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/pgrfv Updated 22 June 2026 13:33 AFP June 22, 2026 08:17 Follow President Aoun receives call from Qatari PM, US VP JD Vance and Jared Kushner Israeli Foreign Minister says country has no ambitions in Lebanon BURGENSTOCK: Iran and the United States agreed Monday to set up communications lines to end fighting in Lebanon, mediators said, after their first round of talks in Switzerland toward ending the war in the Middle East. Mediators Pakistan and Qatar said the talks took place in “a positive and constructive atmosphere.” “Encouraging progress has been made including the creation of a mechanism for further technical talks,” they said, detailing a contact channel set up to “avoid incidents and miscommunication” at the Strait of Hormuz.” A “de-confliction cell,” between the parties and the Lebanese authorities has also been set up to prevent fighting from erupting again, they said. Lebanon had been pitched into the conflict as Iran-allied Hezbollah attacked Israel over the war on Iran, prompting the Israelis’ bombardment of the neighboring country. After a series of false starts, Washington and Tehran finally signed a memorandum of understanding toward ending the conflict that included a provision to end fighting in Lebanon between Israel and Hezbollah. “Tireless Pakistani and Qatari mediation has delivered major progress to end Lebanon War,” Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi wrote on X after the talks in Switzerland. “Oil and petrochem exports are waived, blockade lifted, some frozen assets released, and major reconstruction & development plan launched for Iran. 1st real test: Lebanon deconfliction cell,” he wrote. The development came after a shaky start to the negotiations, with the Islamic Republic’s delegation walking out in response to US President Donald Trump’s threats to strike Iran over its support for Hezbollah Sunday. Lebanese President discusses ceasefire in calls President General Joseph Aoun received a phone call from US Vice President JD Vance, Senior Advisor to the US President Jared Kushner, and the Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed Al Thani. The discussion focused on consolidating the ceasefire in Lebanon, halting the Israeli military escalation, and the steps that must be taken in this regard, including the possibility of forming a cell for this purpose. In a meeting with a delegation from the League of Greek Catholics, Aoun reiterated the country's welcome of any assistance to end the war, saying the right to differ is “sacred” but disagreement between the Lebanese is not permitted in the current circumstances. Aoun also stressed the sovereignty of Lebanon saying no one is to negotiate on its behalf. Israel says it has no ambitions in Lebanon Israeli Foreignh Minister Gideon Sar said Israel will respect the ceasefire in Lebanon as long as it won’t be breached by Hezbollah in a call with his New Zealand counterpart, Winston Peters. Gideon said the country does not have territorial ambitions in Lebanon, “but it will not withdraw from the security zone and expose our citizens to Hezbollah’s attacks and possible invasion, Lebanon’s sovereignty has been breached for decades to this very day by Iran’s indirect occupation by Hezbollah” adding it’s the interest of both Lebanon and Israel that Hezbollah’s terror state will be dismantled. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Iran says 8 rescued fishermen handed over by Pakistan to return home today Brent falls after US-Iran talks conclude in Switzerland Latest Updates Sidra Capital and Four Directions to develop SR450m Fashion District in Riyadh Gaza’s surfers seek solace in the sea Pope Leo decries leaders who ‘feed’ wars while millions go hungry Tourism demand in Makkah, Madinah not dampened by regional conflict, says Knight Frank Oman inflation rises 3.8% in May on transport, personal goods costs Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? EN
