Arab News Sunday . June 21, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Middle East World Lifestyle Agricultural celebrations aim to strengthen local market access Previous Pause Next Home Iran holds meeting with US, Qatar on Lebanon, frozen funds: state media Iran holds meeting with US, Qatar on Lebanon, frozen funds: state media A Swiss Army Helicopter flies around the Buergenstock resort in Obbuergen, near Lucerne, Switzerland, Sunday, June 21, 2026. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/p2rex Updated 21 June 2026 14:50 AFP June 21, 2026 09:16 Follow TEHRAN: Iranian state television said on Sunday that delegations from Iran, Qatar and the United States were holding a meeting in Switzerland to discuss a ceasefire in Lebanon and Iran’s frozen assets. “A tripartite meeting involving Iran, the United States and Qatar on the subjects of a comprehensive ceasefire in Lebanon and Iran’s blocked assets is currently being held at the negotiation venue,” state broadcaster IRIB said in a report. Iran said on Sunday that the ongoing conflict in Lebanon between Israel and militant group Hezbollah will top the agenda in talks with the United States. “The Zionist regime continues to violate its commitment in Lebanon, this issue will be the main topic of discussion in today’s talks,” foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei said in a video shared by IRNA state news agency. Tehran said on Thursday it had signed a deal with Washington to end months of hostilities that began on February 28 following US-Israeli attacks on Iran. Under the agreement, the Israel-Hezbollah conflict in Lebanon was also due to stop. Iran’s military announced on Saturday that it has closed the Strait of Hormuz again over ongoing Israeli attacks in Lebanon. But there were no reports of fresh strikes in Lebanon after Saturday evening and Baqaei said since Saturday “a fragile cessation (in Lebanon) has been established.” He added that Tehran would also pursue the issue of its frozen and inaccessible funds during the talks. “The issue of making available Iran’s frozen or restricted assets, as well as the discussion related to issuing the necessary licenses for the sale of Iranian oil, will also be on the agenda,” he said from Switzerland. Iran has not officially disclosed the value of its frozen assets, though media reports have estimated them at more than $100 billion, largely frozen since the 1979 Islamic Revolution that toppled the US-backed shah. According to Baqaei, the Iranian delegation will meet the US delegation in a “quadrilateral meeting” that will also include mediators Pakistan and Qatar. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US TALKS LEBANON Latest Updates Saudi Arabia pitches $2.5tn mining opportunity to French, European investors Interactive map helps visitors explore Asir Milky Way illuminates Northern Borders skies at peak summer observing season Agricultural celebrations aim to strengthen local market access Israel says no restriction on troops ‘eliminating threats’ in Lebanon Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability EN
