Arab News Sunday . June 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Business & Economy Saudi Arabia Middle East ‘No point’ in peace talks if US fails to uphold commitments: Iran chief negotiator Previous Pause Next Home Trump to meet El-Sisi at G7 summit in France: Egyptian presidency Trump to meet El-Sisi at G7 summit in France: Egyptian presidency President Donald Trump and Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi at a summit on Gaza in Sharm El-Sheikh in October. The two leaders will meet again this week at the G7 Summit in France. (AFP/File) Short Url https://arab.news/grvtu Updated 14 June 2026 17:06 AFP June 14, 2026 13:07 Follow Egyptian presidency says El-Sisi’s meetings would focus on resolving geopolitical crises and their repercussions on trade, energy and supply chains French-hosted summit takes place in the city of Evian on June 15-17 CAIRO: US President Donald Trump is set to hold talks with Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi on the sidelines of the G7 summit in France this month, the Egyptian presidency said on Sunday. In a statement, the presidency said El-Sisi is expected to hold a series of meetings with world leaders during the summit, “including a bilateral meeting with US President Donald Trump.” It added that El-Sisi’s meetings would focus on “discussing ways to resolve international geopolitical crises and address their repercussions on trade, energy and supply chains.” The G7 summit will be one of the first major international gatherings since the United States and Israel launched a war against Iran in late February, upending the Middle East and widening transatlantic tensions. French President Emmanuel Macron, who is hosting the summit in the city of Evian on June 15-17, said that leaders from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates had been invited to discuss the Middle East war, according to the French presidency. Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said he would not attend the summit due to “prior commitments,” the Saudi Press Agency (SPA) reported on Thursday. The G7 brings together the leaders of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States, along with invited leaders from several other countries, including Brazil and India. Macron is due to arrive in Evian on Sunday evening, with other leaders, including Trump, expected on Monday. Leaders are set to have a packed agenda of potentially explosive issues, including efforts to end the war in Iran and re-open the key Strait of Hormuz shipping bottleneck. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN G7 2026 RELATED Trump to meet Mideast leaders, attend Ukraine session at G7 summit in France Saudi crown prince thanks Macron for G7 invitation, says unable to attend Latest Updates Closing Bell: Saudi main index rises to close at 11,104 Trump to meet El-Sisi at G7 summit in France: Egyptian presidency ‘No point’ in peace talks if US fails to uphold commitments: Iran chief negotiator Asir Summer Season returns with 100 exciting experiences for tourists UK anti-Islam activist Robinson briefly detained under terrorism laws Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades EN
