Arab News Friday . July 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Football World 2026 World Cup final is also about the time Spain’s De la Fuente taught Argentina boss Scaloni Previous Pause Next Home Landslide buries residents in southwest China’s Chongqing Landslide buries residents in southwest China’s Chongqing Previous 1 second of 29 secondsVolume 0% Firefighters arrive to the landslide scene in Pengshui County in southwestern China’s Chongqing on July 17, 2026. (Mimama via AP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/6zftu Updated 17 July 2026 10:14 REUTERS July 17, 2026 10:14 Follow The exact number of those trapped was still being confirmed, report says Nine people had been pulled from the rubble, with none in life-threatening condition BEIJING: An unknown ‌number of people were buried after a landslide struck a county in the southwestern Chinese city of Chongqing on Friday, causing multiple residential buildings downhill to collapse, according to state media. Preliminary verification indicated that a Pengshui county community worker spotted scattered falling rocks around 8 a.m. local time (0000 GMT) and issued an emergency warning, state broadcaster CCTV said. Authorities ordered ‌an evacuation ‌of more than 60 residents, but ‌the ⁠landslide occurred during ⁠the evacuation at 9:08 a.m., burying some people. The exact number of those trapped was still being confirmed, the report said. Nine people had been pulled from the rubble, with none in life-threatening condition, according to ⁠the official Xinhua news agency. It ‌was not immediately ‌clear what caused the landslide. Aerial footage from ‌CCTV showed rock and debris falling ‌on a cluster of riverside residential buildings, while people could be seen fleeing with a thick plume of dust billowing behind them. A dashcam video posted ‌on X, verified by Reuters, showed a section of hillside collapsing onto ⁠homes ⁠and businesses below, sending debris across the road and forcing passing cars and a motorcycle to stop. China’s Ministry of Emergency Management activated a level-two emergency response and dispatched a 100-member rescue team to the scene, the ministry said in a statement. Some 206 personnel and 49 vehicles from China’s fire and rescue force were sent to the site to assist in rescue efforts, the ministry said. Follow Topics: CHINA RELATED VIDEO Four dead, eight missing in China landslide after heavy rain One dead, dozens missing in China landslide Latest Updates Pride of the region: Team Falcons MENA ready to compete at Esports World Cup in Paris Pride of the region: Team Falcons MENA ready to compete at Esports World Cup in Paris Landslide buries residents in southwest China’s Chongqing 2026 World Cup final is also about the time Spain’s De la Fuente taught Argentina boss Scaloni 2026 World Cup final is also about the time Spain’s De la Fuente taught Argentina boss Scaloni Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? EN
