LIVE SAILOR DIES AFTER UAE SHIPS ATTACKED IN HORMUZ, DEFENSE MINISTRY SAYS × Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Sport Saudi Arabia UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Previous Pause Next Home Iran says will stop complying with deal if US does not honor commitments Iran says will stop complying with deal if US does not honor commitments Previous 0 seconds of 18 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Air raid sirens sounded in Bahrain on Monday and residents were advised to take shelter following the attacks. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/87kjz Updated 13 July 2026 22:59 AFP July 13, 2026 13:36 Follow Iran’s Guards say struck US military bases in Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait Radar systems in Oman were also destroyed in the latest retaliatory attacks MANAMA/TEHRAN: Iran on Monday said it would no longer abide by the memorandum of understanding signed with the United States if Washington failed to uphold its commitments to end the war. “Each time that the other party has failed to meet its obligations, we did not uphold ours … We will continue to act in this manner,” foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei told a press conference in Tehran, following the latest bout of hostilities between the foes. Baqaei said Tehran was continuing talks with mediators from Qatar, Pakistan and Oman in an effort to prevent any further escalation in its war with the United States. “The role of the mediators is to continue their efforts to prevent an escalation of tensions,” Baqaei said. 0 seconds of 37 secondsVolume 0% But Iran's Mehr news agency said explosions had been heard around Iran’s Bandar Abbas and Qeshm Island early Monday afternoon. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said they had struck US military targets and bases in Jordan, Bahrain and Kuwait, state media reported on Monday. The official news agency IRNA cited several statements released by the Guards saying they had attacked Prince Hassan Air Base in Jordan, a US military drone command center in Bahrain and air bases including Ali Al-Salem in Kuwait. 0 seconds of 44 secondsVolume 0% Radar systems in Oman were also destroyed in the latest retaliatory attacks. Iranian missiles entered the country’s airspace, the Jordanian army said Monday, with four rockets fired from Iranian territory intercepted and shot down. No injuries or material damage has been reported. Any attempt to undermine the country's sovereignty will be met with a firm response, the Jordanian army said. Kuwait’s armed forces said they were responding to “hostile aerial targets” on Monday. “The Armed Forces are currently intercepting hostile aerial targets within Kuwaiti airspace,” the head of Kuwait’s army said in a statement published by the state-run news agency KUNA. Bahrain’s military on Monday accused Iran of targeting civilians with its latest attacks on the kingdom, after Tehran said it had struck US military facilities and infrastructure there. “Iran continues its systematic hostile approach through its heinous attacks with missiles and drones that target civilians in the Kingdom of Bahrain,” the general command of Bahrain’s military said in a statement, adding that air defenses “intercepted and destroyed a number of Iranian aerial attacks” on Monday morning. Bahrain sounded its missile alert sirens twice on Monday, with the interior ministry instructing residents to take shelter following attacks on the island nation.. “The siren has been sounded... citizens and residents are urged to remain calm and head to the nearest safe place,” the Ministry of Interior posted on X. Iran said Sunday it was closing the Strait of Hormuz and launched missiles and drones at Gulf neighbors after the US carried out a new round of strikes as their conflict escalated. The latest exchange of fire was sparked by another Iranian attack on a commercial ship in the strait, whose crew were forced to abandon the vessel after it went up in flames. The escalation is the latest to undermine an interim agreement between Washington and Tehran aimed at ending their war, which broke out in late February with US-Israeli strikes that killed Iran’s supreme leader. Mediators have been trying to salvage a diplomatic solution after President Donald Trump this week declared a ceasefire over. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN BAHRAIN JORDAN KUWAIT RELATED UPDATE VIDEO US says completed strikes on dozens of Iranian targets UN chief calls on US and Iran to halt new outbreak of fighting Latest Updates US releases video of first sea drone strike on Iran port facility US missions in UAE suspend consular appointments over ‘security situation’ UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Controversy stalks Argentina at World Cup with allegations of FBI probe, rigged referee calls Hamas rejects UN official’s accusation of Gaza aid obstruction Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN
