Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Business & Economy Saudi Arabia Sport Documentary details behind-the-scenes efforts to construct Sports Boulevard Previous Pause Next Home Syria, Lebanon form joint ministerial committee on security, economy Syria, Lebanon form joint ministerial committee on security, economy Syrian Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani, left, and Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam sign agreement to establish higher committee comprising ministers from both countries. (SANA) Short Url https://arab.news/gaxjh Updated 02 July 2026 17:00 ARAB NEWS July 02, 2026 16:56 Follow Agreement signed in Beirut by the Syrian foreign minister and Lebanon’s prime minister Both sides emphasized respect for sovereignty and backed each other’s stability LONDON: Syria and Lebanon agreed on Thursday to establish a joint ministerial committee aimed at strengthening security coordination, expanding economic cooperation and advancing bilateral ties. The agreement was signed in the Lebanese capital Beirut by Syrian Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani and Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam, according to the Syrian state news agency SANA. “Today, we finalized an agreement to establish a joint Syrian-Lebanese Higher Committee comprising ministers from both countries. The committee will meet regularly to strengthen bilateral cooperation,” Salam said at a joint press conference with Al-Shaibani. Al-Shaibani said the body would provide a framework for expanding economic cooperation and strengthening security coordination. “Our partnership with Lebanon will provide a platform for expanding economic cooperation and strengthening security coordination between our two countries,” he said. Talks at Baabda Palace also focused on electricity interconnection, the transport and exchange of goods, and easing the movement of people between Syria and Lebanon, Salam told reporters. Both sides also stressed the importance of respecting each other’s sovereignty. Al-Shaibani described his visit to Beirut as a sign of Syria’s “support for Lebanon and our commitment to building a healthy and constructive relationship between our two countries.” He also voiced support for Lebanon’s stability and condemned Israeli attacks on Lebanese territory. “Syria rejects all Israeli aggressions against Lebanon, including shelling and forced displacement, and supports the Lebanese state in its efforts to achieve stability,” he said. Similarly, Lebanese President Joseph Aoun expressed support for Syria’s stability and welcomed what he called “a new chapter” in ties between the neighboring countries, SANA reported. Aoun’s remarks came after meeting Al-Shaibani at Baabda Palace. He also said Syria’s interim president, Ahmad Al-Sharaa, had assured him repeatedly that Damascus’s approach toward Lebanon had changed. “President Ahmad Al-Sharaa has assured me in more than one meeting and phone call that Syria’s role will not be what it was in the past and that a new chapter has opened between our two countries,” Aoun said. “Syria will not side with one Lebanese party against another but will stand alongside all Lebanese.” Aoun also welcomed the creation of the joint committee. Earlier on Thursday, Al-Shaibani met with Aoun and Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri to discuss bilateral ties and economic cooperation. On Syrians detained in Lebanon, Al-Shaibani said legal proceedings were underway and expressed hope they would result in their transfer to Syria. “Regarding Syrian prisoners and detainees in Lebanon, a judicial process is underway, and we hope it will lead to the transfer of all of them to Syria,” he said. Before the fall of Syria’s longterm ruler Bashar Assad, Syrian-Lebanese relations were shaped by decades of Syrian dominance, Lebanese resentment and periodic attempts to normalize ties. Syria intervened in Lebanon’s civil war in 1976, kept troops and deep political influence there until 2005, and even after withdrawing remained deeply entangled in Lebanese politics and security affairs. When the Syrian civil war started in 2011, Lebanon was pulled back into its neighbor’s orbit in a different way, especially through Hezbollah’s intervention on Assad’s side. After Assad’s fall on Dec. 8, 2024, in a rebel offensive that swept through large parts of the war-torn country, Syria and Lebanon moved into a cautious reset, with both sides talking more openly about sovereignty, normal state-to-state ties and practical cooperation on borders, detainees, refugees and trade, even though mistrust remained high. Follow Topics: SYRIA LEBANON FALL OF ASSAD POST-ASSAD SYRIA SYRIA-LEBANON RELATIONS RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Syrian foreign minister says Syria open to meeting Hezbollah, according to media reports Lebanon and Syria join US-led Middle East military talks Latest Updates Scared but staying: Some migrants dig in as South Africa turns hostile Masam destroys 6,009 war explosives in Bab Al-Mandab Ukrainian drone injures two aboard Belarusian tourist bus traveling through Russia Documentary details behind-the-scenes efforts to construct Sports Boulevard Poland to seek extradition of ex-justice minister from US Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
