Arab News Friday . July 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Saudi Arabia Business & Economy Lifestyle Saudi Football Saudi Arabia launches the world’s largest truck marshalling area at Jeddah port Previous Pause Next Home China slams Trump claims of US election meddling as ‘pure fabrications’ China slams Trump claims of US election meddling as ‘pure fabrications’ Previous 0 seconds of 20 secondsVolume 0% US President Donald Trump said he would declassify intelligence that purportedly shows that China had illicitly acquired 220 million voter files. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/bpf8f Updated 17 July 2026 12:31 AFP July 17, 2026 12:25 Follow ‘China has … no interest in the US election and has never interfered in it’ ‘The international community sees very clearly who it is that habitually interferes in the internal affairs of other countries’ BEIJING: Beijing accused US President Donald Trump of making “fabrications” on Friday, after he said China had meddled in US election data, reviving his long-standing baseless claims of voter fraud ahead of midterm polls many expect him to dispute. Trump said in a White House address on Thursday that the US electoral system had been dangerously exposed and urged lawmakers to adopt new restrictions on voting, despite scant appetite for the measures even within his Republican Party. The US president also said he would declassify intelligence that purportedly shows that China had illicitly acquired 220 million voter files. “The relevant claims made by the US side are pure fabrications and malicious smears that have long since been proven to be groundless statements,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Lin Jian told a news conference when asked about Trump’s latest claims. “China has … no interest in the US election and has never interfered in it,” Lin said. “The international community sees very clearly who it is that habitually interferes in the internal affairs of other countries.” “We urge the US side to reflect on its own actions, stop baselessly smearing China, refrain from making an issue of China in its elections, and do more to benefit China-US relations,” he added. Trump’s claim that the 2020 election was “rigged” has never been substantiated. More than 60 lawsuits produced no ruling establishing fraud capable of changing the outcome, while recounts, audits and his own Justice Department found none. Follow Topics: CHINA DONALD TRUMP RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Trump accuses China of 2020 voting interference, contradicting US intelligence findings VIDEO Trump uses primetime address to the nation to once again raise doubts about past elections Latest Updates Iran’s IRGC says it targeted US installations in Syria, Jordan, Iraq and Oman China slams Trump claims of US election meddling as ‘pure fabrications’ The mission after space: Prince Sultan’s journey into Saudi heritage Saudi Arabia launches the world’s largest truck marshalling area at Jeddah port Uber acquires Delivery Hero, and Saudi Arabia is the key player Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
