Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Lifestyle Next UK PM urged to end Labour Party’s ‘boys club’ Previous Pause Next Home One dead as Algeria battles wildfires One dead as Algeria battles wildfires Previous 0 seconds of 50 secondsVolume 0% Wildfires burning across northern Algeria have killed a municipal worker who was taking part in firefighting, media reports said Wednesday. (AFP/File) Next Short Url https://arab.news/p3tzu Updated 16 July 2026 09:23 AFP July 16, 2026 09:22 Follow Wildfires fueled by a heatwave have been ravaging parts of the North African country for days Authorities have not said how much land had burned ALGIERS: Wildfires burning across northern Algeria have killed a municipal worker who was taking part in firefighting, media reports said Wednesday. Local media quoted the mayor of Beni Mouhli, in Algeria’s Setif, as saying the 59-year-old died while helping emergency crews contain the fires. The civil defense has yet to confirm the death, but on Tuesday night it said one person with severe burns had been evacuated by helicopter, without identifying the victim. Wildfires fueled by a heatwave have been ravaging parts of the North African country for days. Authorities have not said how much land had burned. Other countries located on the Mediterranean Sea, including France and Italy, have also been battling wildfires in recent days. The Algerian civil defense said in a statement on Wednesday morning that its units had responded to nearly 140 fires across the country over the past 24 hours, and had contained most of them. Wildfires are a common sight in summer in northern Algeria, increasingly exacerbated by drought and heatwaves that scientists say are linked to climate change. Follow Topics: ALGERIA WILDFIRES RELATED Algeria fires fanned by winds, extreme heat kill 34 Algeria fires burned UNESCO-listed park: expert Latest Updates One dead as Algeria battles wildfires Israel tells Pentagon chief will keep troops in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza ‘security zones’ ‘No rest’: Indonesians overworked and abused on foreign fishing vessels Next UK PM urged to end Labour Party’s ‘boys club’ Azerbaijan at ‘real peace’ with Armenia but wants it to change constitution Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
