Arab News Tuesday . June 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Sport Saudi Arabia In US, Trump’s Iran deal receives mixed reception US-Iran deal a ‘catastrophe’ for Israel, analysts say Previous Pause Next Home Netanyahu: Israel won’t withdraw troops from Lebanon, Syria, Gaza Netanyahu: Israel won’t withdraw troops from Lebanon, Syria, Gaza Previous 0 seconds of 21 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE 1 / 2 Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gives a news conference in Jerusalem on Friday. (AFP) UPDATE 2 / 2 Israeli soldiers gather near military vehicles on the Israeli side of the Israel-Lebanon border, in northern Israel on Thursday. (Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/24b32 Updated 16 June 2026 00:18 AFP June 15, 2026 08:12 Follow Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is pursuing a clear policy under which the IDF will remain in the security zones in Lebanon, Syria and Gaza for an unlimited period of time JERUSALEM: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday that the country’s forces would remain in Gaza, Lebanon and Syria “for as long as necessary,” hours after a deal was announced between Iran and the US to end the Middle East war. “We established deep security zones around the State of Israel. We did this in Gaza, in Lebanon, and in Syria,” Netanyahu said in a televised press conference. “And I want to make it clear: we will remain in these security zones for as long as necessary to protect our country.” Israeli soldiers gather near military vehicles on the Israeli side of the Israel-Lebanon border, in northern Israel on Thursday. (Reuters) His defense minister Israel Katz made similar comments earlier in the day. “Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and I are pursuing a clear policy under which the IDF will remain in the security zones in Lebanon, Syria and Gaza for an unlimited period of time, in order to protect the border and Israeli communities from there against jihadist elements,” Katz said in a statement. Katz also warned Iran that if Iran attacked Israel in response to its campaign in Lebanon, Israel would retaliate with “full force.” Follow Topics: SYRIA GAZA LEBANON RELATED Israeli far-right minister slams US-Iran deal, urges stronger campaign in Lebanon UPDATE VIDEO Lebanon warns displaced against rushing home after US-Iran agreement Latest Updates Egypt’s 92-year wait for World Cup victory continues after draw with Belgium Uganda opposition figure seized by soldiers as army chief vows ‘hurt and pain’ In US, Trump’s Iran deal receives mixed reception US-Iran deal a ‘catastrophe’ for Israel, analysts say Lebanese mourn razed homes, livelihoods in southern city Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? EN
