Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Media Lifestyle Vatican excommunicates six ultraconservative bishops over ordination Previous Pause Next Home Iran warns US, Israel against attacks ahead of funeral processions for Khamenei Iran warns US, Israel against attacks ahead of funeral processions for Khamenei The late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in airstrikes on the first day of the war that started on February 28. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/m7x3d Updated 02 July 2026 14:01 REUTERS July 02, 2026 13:43 Follow Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif will attend the state funeral of the former supreme leader Funeral processions for Khamenei ‌will begin on ‌July 4 in Tehran and conclude on ‌July 9 with his burial DUBAI: An ‌Iranian military commander warned the United States and Israel on Thursday against any attack on Iran as it prepares for the state funeral of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in airstrikes on the first day of the war. “We warn the enemies of Iran, especially the US ‌and the Zionist ‌regime (Israel), to avoid any ‌miscalculation ⁠and to think about ⁠the harsh retaliation our armed forces would make to any threat and aggression against our country,” Ali Abdollahi, commander of Khatam Al-Anbiya Central Headquarters, said in a statement carried by state ⁠media. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif will attend the state funeral of the former supreme leader, Pakistan’s foreign ‌ministry said ‌on Thursday. Senior Chinese lawmaker He Wei will also attend the funeral, the Chinese foreign ‌ministry announced on ‌Thursday. He is the vice chairman ⁠of China's top ‌lawmaking ‌body, the Standing Committee of ‌the National People's ‌Congress. India said on Thursday that its deputy foreign minister ​and a state governor would represent the country at the state funeral of Khamenei. Governor of Bihar, Syed Ata ‌Hasnain, and deputy ‌foreign minister ​Pabitra ‌Margherita will ⁠visit ​Iran on ⁠July 3, the Indian foreign ministry said in a statement. “The high-level representation in the ceremony underscores the importance of civilizational ⁠ties, including people-to-people connection, between ‌the ‌two countries, providing a ​robust foundation ‌to political and economic engagements,” ‌it said. Funeral processions for Khamenei ‌will begin on ‌July 4 in Tehran and conclude on ‌July 9 with his burial in ‌his hometown of Mashhad, with additional ceremonies planned in Qom and Iraq in-between these dates. On Wednesday, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi ‌gave a similar warning that Tehran would deliver an immediate ⁠and powerful ⁠response to any threat against its people or leadership after comments by Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz that Iran’s current Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei was “marked for death.” Iranian media reported heightened security measures during the funeral period, while the head of Iran’s Civil Aviation Organization said on Wednesday that temporary airspace restrictions would be implemented over several cities including Tehran and Mashhad. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN PAKISTAN CHINA ALI KHAMENEI RELATED UPDATE Funeral for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Khamenei to begin July 4, burial set for July 9 Iran prepares for late supreme leader’s funeral Latest Updates Facing barbs and pressure from Trump, Europe’s leaders close ranks Expanding conflict drives record hunger in northern Nigeria: WFP Vatican excommunicates six ultraconservative bishops over ordination REVIEW: ‘The Sheep Detectives’ — a deliciously cozy crime caper for all ages Couple caned for kissing on TikTok in Indonesia’s conservative Aceh province Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
