Arab News Friday . July 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Saudi Arabia EU imposes sanctions on Russian executive, five companies over drones Previous Pause Next Home US military says it destroyed Iranian port surveillance tower US military says it destroyed Iranian port surveillance tower Previous 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% The US military said on Friday that it had destroyed the Chabahar Shahid Kalantari Port surveillance tower in Iran on Thursday. (X/@PeteHegseth) Next Short Url https://arab.news/wvf69 Updated 17 July 2026 18:33 REUTERS July 17, 2026 17:53 Follow CENTCOM said tower was part of maritime surveillance network along Gulf of Oman coastline Iran’s ‌Revolutionary Guards said on Friday they had attacked a US special operations command center at ​Al-Tanf in Syria WASHINGTON: The US military said on Friday that it had destroyed the Chabahar Shahid Kalantari Port surveillance tower in Iran on Thursday. US Central Command said in a post on X that the tower was part of a maritime surveillance network along Iran’s Gulf of Oman coastline used by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to track and target commercial vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz. Meanwhile, Iran’s ‌Revolutionary Guards said on Friday they had attacked a US special operations command center at ​Al-Tanf in Syria in retaliation for the killing of Iranian soldiers in Iranshahr, state media reported. Reuters could not independently verify the claim, and there was no immediate comment from the Syrian government or the ‌US military. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said Friday that they had targeted US radar systems and military aircraft in Qatar to “punish the aggressor” following overnight US strikes on Iran. One ​of Kuwait’s power generation and water desalination ‌stations ‌was ​hit ‌in ⁠an ​Iranian attack, causing ⁠damage to facilities, a fire ⁠and ‌the ‌disruption ​of a large ‌number ‌of electricity generation units, ‌Kuwait’s Ministry of Electricity, ⁠Water and ⁠Renewable Energy said on Friday. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Friday they had struck US military aircraft stationed in Jordan with ballistic missiles and drones in retaliation for overnight US strikes. In a statement, they claimed to have destroyed “several US refueling aircraft and fighter jets” and caused “serious damage to many more.” They also called on Jordanians to target “the interests of the aggressive and anti-Islamic Americans” in their country. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US RELATED UPDATE Iran targets US bases in Iraq, Jordan, Oman and Syria UPDATE VIDEO US strikes Iran for sixth straight night as Tehran retaliates against US allies Latest Updates Two ex-leaders warn of threat to future Palestinian state US military says it destroyed Iranian port surveillance tower EU imposes sanctions on Russian executive, five companies over drones Saudi artist seeks to create vast mural of crown prince Bowen confirms stay at West Ham despite Premier League relegation Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
