Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Media Lifestyle Middle East Business & Economy World Sport A journey through 28 letters: Riyadh exhibition traces story of Arabic from ancient inscriptions to modern technology Previous Pause Next Home Bomb attack rocks Damascus during Macron visit Bomb attack rocks Damascus during Macron visit Previous 0 seconds of 26 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Security personnel stand guard near the Four Seasons Hotel following two blasts nearby in Damascus on July 7, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/mhs9w Updated 07 July 2026 18:40 AFP July 07, 2026 10:28 Follow Explosions struck a busy area of Damascus between the Tourism Ministry and the national museum across the street from the Four Seasons hotel DAMASCUS: Two bombs exploded on Tuesday near ​a hotel in Damascus where French President Emmanuel Macron spent the night, wounding 18 people and overshadowing the first visit to Syria by a European Union head of state since Bashar Assad was toppled. Macron, whose motorcade left the hotel shortly before the blasts, pressed ahead with his visit, meeting President Ahmed Al-Sharaa at the presidential palace. His office said he had not heard the blasts. The attack underlined lingering security challenges facing Sharaa who has built close ties with Western states as he has sought to rebuild a country shattered by 13 years of civil war. 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% The explosions struck a busy area of Damascus between the Tourism Ministry and the national museum across the street from the Four Seasons hotel, where a source in Macron’s delegation and Syrian security sources said he had spent the night and had met civil ‌society groups on ‌Tuesday morning. Posting on X just after the blasts, Macron said his visit continued and praised the “dignity, ​courage ‌and ⁠determination” of Syrians ​he ⁠had met. “We are not naive about the risks, but they are being managed,” Macron said later in a news conference with Sharaa. “Certain groups” sought to prevent “Syria’s full and complete reintegration into the international community,” he added. 0 seconds of 15 secondsVolume 0% Macron also said France was working to redefine its security and military cooperation with Syria, including the potential support of French special forces to fight Daesh, which has claimed several attacks on Syrian forces this year. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for Tuesday’s attack. Sharaa said investigations were ongoing. Macron, who led calls for the lifting of Western sanctions on Syria last year, was accompanied by business leaders, including the CEOs of TotalEnergies and shipping group CMA CGM. He said France was ready to help rebuild Syria’s economy and banking sector. 0 seconds of 15 secondsVolume 0% The Elysee said CMA ⁠CGM signed a partnership deal with Syria, including air cargo freight handling at Damascus airport, and that France ‌and Syria would start a process to restore to Syria €51 million ($58.3 million) of assets confiscated ‌from the late Rifaat Assad, Bashar’s uncle. TotalEnergies’ CEO said his company would discuss signing ​an offshore exploration contract with Syrian officials, but that lingering insecurity meant a ‌return to onshore oil activities was still not a viable option. 0 seconds of 50 secondsVolume 0% The first blast hit soon after Macron’s motorcade left ‌for the presidential palace. Reuters footage showed flames and smoke billowing from the site, when a second explosion was caught on camera a few meters (yards) away. The second blast went off next to an ambulance parked at the scene, where some two dozen people had gathered. Reuters video showed Macron’s motorcade heading along a highway toward the presidential palace before the blasts. Daesh, an adversary of Sharaa during the civil war, declared a new phase of operations against his government in February. Aron Lund of the ‌Century International think-tank said such attacks could dent confidence in Syria’s recovery, but they posed no threat to government control over the country. “It’s a worrying phenomenon, but I don’t think we should overstate it. ⁠It’s been 1-1/2 years and Islamic ⁠State hasn’t re-emerged in the way many feared,” he said. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD SYRIA RELATED National Defense University boosts training and specialization: Syrian defense minister Austrian court sentences Assad-era Syrian torturers to 8 years in jail Latest Updates Saudi banks maintain resilience, credit growth offsets interest rate pressures A journey through 28 letters: Riyadh exhibition traces story of Arabic from ancient inscriptions to modern technology Macron’s Damascus visit signals French bid for influence in new Syria, analysts say Cuba struggles to restore power to island following nationwide grid collapse Misinformation inciting harm to refugees: UN Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
