Arab News Monday . June 29, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy World Middle East Lifestyle Sport Australia to host Brazil double-header after World Cup Previous Pause Next Home Syria condemns Israeli incursions, urges UN action as Arab parliament backs sovereignty Syria condemns Israeli incursions, urges UN action as Arab parliament backs sovereignty Previous 0 seconds of 18 secondsVolume 0% Israeli troops man the dividing line between the Israeli-annexed Golan Heights and the Syrian side, near Majdal Shams on July 16, 2025. (AFP/File photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/zkhx5 Updated 29 June 2026 12:20 ARAB NEWS June 29, 2026 05:14 Follow Damascus says Israeli shelling and incursions violate sovereignty and threaten regional stability Arab Parliament condemns repeated attacks on Syria and reaffirms support for its territorial integrity DAMASCUS: Syria condemned what it described as fresh Israeli attacks and incursions into its territory and called on the United Nations and the international community to intervene to stop repeated violations of its sovereignty, the Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) reported on Sunday. The Syrian Foreign Ministry said Israeli forces had entered Syrian territory in the southern provinces of Quneitra and Daraa and shelled parts of the area, actions that it said terrorized civilians and constituted a flagrant violation of Syrian sovereignty, international law, the UN Charter and the 1974 Disengagement Agreement. In a statement carried by SANA, the ministry said the continued attacks undermine efforts to restore security and stability, exacerbate the suffering of civilians and threaten to further escalate tensions in the region. The ministry called on the United Nations and the broader international community to assume their responsibilities and take necessary measures to halt what it described as repeated Israeli violations and ensure respect for the 1974 agreement governing the ceasefire line on the occupied Golan Heights. The Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Monday also expressed the Kingdom's condemnation and denunciation of the continued flagrant violations by the Israeli occupation authorities in the region, specifically the latest incursions into Syrian territory and the targeting of the Quneitra and Daraa provinces with artillery shells. Israel captured most of the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Middle East war and effectively annexed the strategic plateau in 1981, a move not recognized by most of the international community. During the rule of former Syrian President Bashar Assad, Israel carried out hundreds of air strikes in Syria, saying it was targeting Iranian military positions and weapons transfers to the Iran-backed Hezbollah movement in Lebanon. Since the fall of Assad's government earlier this year, Syrian authorities have repeatedly accused Israel of taking advantage of the political transition by launching additional air strikes and carrying out incursions into areas near the demilitarized zone in southern Syria. Israeli officials have said their actions are aimed at preventing hostile groups from establishing a military presence near Israel's border and protecting Israeli security interests. Arab Parliament backs Syria Separately, the Eighth Conference of the Arab Parliament and Speakers of Arab Councils and Parliaments reaffirmed its support for Syria's sovereignty, territorial integrity, security and stability and condemned repeated Israeli attacks on Syrian territory, according to SANA. Participants pose for a group photo during the Eighth Conference of the Arab Parliament and Speakers of Arab Councils and Parliaments in Cairo, Egypt on June 28, 2026. (SANA photo) In its final communiqué issued after a meeting at the Arab League headquarters in Cairo, the conference said protecting the sovereignty, security and stability of Arab states remained a top priority. Participants also condemned continued Israeli attacks on Syria and Lebanon and interventions in Somalia, while stressing the need for greater Arab coordination to address regional challenges. The conference condemned Iranian attacks on several Arab countries and said Arab states remained united in safeguarding regional security and sovereignty. Delegates adopted a resolution opposing Israeli policies aimed at eliminating the Palestinian cause and reaffirmed support for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, describing the Palestinian issue as the central cause of the Arab nation. Arab Parliament Speaker Mohammed bin Ahmed Al Yamahi earlier called for greater Arab solidarity and closer coordination to confront mounting regional risks and strengthen joint Arab action. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD SYRIA ISRAEL GOLAN QUNEITRA RELATED Trump presses Syria to take on Hezbollah, raising alarm in Lebanon and Israel Israel feared the fall of Assad not the rise of instability, Syrian envoy tells UN Security Council Latest Updates ‘Best case scenario’: Former Egyptian captains happy with team’s path in knockout stages Middle East sovereign investors prioritizing energy security amid global uncertainty Australia to host Brazil double-header after World Cup Malaysia extends search for missing flight MH370 by one year Azerbaijan slams ally Israel’s recognition of Armenian genocide Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk EN
