Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Lebanese parliament speaker, UK’s deputy national security adviser meet for talks American ecumenical leader accuses Israel of ‘systemic’ racial discrimination Previous Pause Next Home Explosive device goes off in cafe in Syria’s capital, killing at least 9 people Explosive device goes off in cafe in Syria’s capital, killing at least 9 people Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 30 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Syrian security inspects the site after an explosive device was detonated in a cafe near the main courthouse complex, in Damascus, Syria, Thursday, July 2, 2026. (AP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/jkm3s Updated 02 July 2026 22:25 AP July 02, 2026 12:31 Follow The explosion near the main courthouse complex left 20 others wounded, the ministry said The Interior Ministry is set to announce its initial findings soon, said Damascus Gov. Maher Idlibi DAMASCUS: An explosive device was detonated Thursday in a cafe in the Syrian capital of Damascus, killing at least nine people, Syria’s Health Ministry said. The explosion near the main courthouse complex left 20 others wounded, the ministry said as reported by Syria’s state-run Al-Ikhbariya network. No group immediately claimed responsibility. Security forces rushed to the cafe and cordoned off the area as they investigate the attack. The Interior Ministry is set to announce its initial findings soon, said Damascus Gov. Maher Idlibi. Idlibi said the device appeared “primitive” and vowed that the perpetrators will be held to account. 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% A video circulating on social media showed several wounded people lying on the ground, with police officers nearby. Ambulances later rushed to the scene treating people on site and taking the more severely wounded to hospitals in the Syrian capital. The cafe was frequented by lawyers who worked in the neighborhood. Jalal Aljanani, who owns a restaurant next door, ran toward the cafe when he heard the explosion and was horrified by the sight of the bodies on the floor. “We carried the victims to the cars until the traffic police arrived,” he told The Associated Press, his shirt covered in blood. “Many of them had suffered severe impact injuries, and almost all of them were bleeding.” Since overthrowing the Assad dynasty and taking power in a lightning insurgency in December 2024, Syria’s new rulers have cracked down on militants from the extremist Daesh group in an attempt to thwart attacks in and around the capital. During the uprising-turned war in Syria that began in 2011, Syrian President Ahmad Al-Sharaa led the Hayat Tahrir al Sham group, formerly affiliated with Al-Qaeda, but since coming to power has vowed to protect Syrians of all backgrounds, especially religious and ethnic minorities. Al-Sharaa has reasserted the government’s full authority across the vast majority of the country, wresting control back from extremist groups or Kurdish-led forces. However, he still contends with security concerns as he tries to stabilize the country. Security agencies frequently announce that they have raided IS cells and thwarted attacks reportedly targeting minorities and busy commercial areas. However, several incidents such as a suicide bombing in a church in July 2025 have raised concerns among many Syrians. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD DAMASCUS EXPLOSIVE DEVICE RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Syrian foreign minister says Syria open to meeting Hezbollah, according to media reports UPDATE VIDEO Syria’s Sharaa appoints lawmakers, paving way for new parliament to convene Latest Updates StubHub sued by fans who say ticket cancelations crushed dreams of going to World Cup Saudi tourism turns to AI for smarter, more personalized travel Lebanese parliament speaker, UK’s deputy national security adviser meet for talks American ecumenical leader accuses Israel of ‘systemic’ racial discrimination Eight arrested in UK probe into men drugging, raping partners Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
