Arab News Saturday . July 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Lifestyle Sport World Lebanese soldier killed in army vehicle explosion in southern Lebanon, cause unknown Previous Pause Next Home Iraq, US sign 48 agreements during PM’s visit Iraq, US sign 48 agreements during PM’s visit Iraqi Prime Minister Ali Al-Zaidi meets with US Secretary of Energy Christopher Wright in Washington, Jul. 17, 2026. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/yhrwq Updated 18 July 2026 16:19 AFP July 18, 2026 16:16 Follow “A total of 48 agreements, memoranda of understanding, cooperation agreements, and partnership declarations were signed,” the Iraqi leader’s media office said Iraq also signed a deal with Starlink to introduce services to the country BAGHDAD: Iraq signed 48 agreements and partnerships with American companies, many in the oil sector, during a visit to the US by Prime Minister Ali Al-Zaidi, his office said Saturday. Oil-rich Iraq has been trying to move past decades of war and unrest, but still suffers from poor infrastructure, failing public services, mismanagement and endemic corruption. It is in urgent need of an economic boost, especially after losing revenue due to a halt in oil exports caused by the Middle East war. “A total of 48 agreements, memoranda of understanding, cooperation agreements, and partnership declarations were signed between public and private sector entities in Iraq and the United States,” the Iraqi leader’s media office said. They include “cooperation and partnerships involving the ministries of oil and electricity... with ExxonMobil, KBR, GE Vernova, Shell, and Halliburton,” as well as several deals related to the construction of a major crude oil pipeline between Iraq and Syria. Iraq also signed a deal with Starlink, which dominates the global satellite communications sector, to introduce services to the country. On Tuesday, US President Donald Trump praised Zaidi as a “champion” in a meeting at the White House. Zaidi, a businessman, came to power this year with US blessing after Trump vetoed another candidate. He has vowed to boost Iraq’s fragile economy and disarm pro-Iran armed groups in Iraq that have targeted US facilities. Iraq has long walked a tightrope between the competing influences of allies the United States and neighboring Iran. Follow Topics: IRAQ ALI AL-ZAIDI US RELATED VIDEO Iraqi president nominates Ali Al-Zaidi as PM-designate US hails plan to restore Iraqi-Syrian oil pipeline Latest Updates Iran executes a man convicted of killing a security force member during 2022 protests Laos says cannot determine cause of tourist deaths linked to tainted alcohol Lebanese soldier killed in army vehicle explosion in southern Lebanon, cause unknown Where We Are Going Today: Alkhobar’s Out of the Ordinary Artisan Gelato Saudi oil giant Aramco launches first gas station in Philippines Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development EN
