Arab News Thursday . July 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Media Saudi Arabia Middle East Business & Economy 600 dead in DR Congo Ebola outbreak Previous Pause Next Home Saudi UN envoy calls for accountability on sexual violence in war, condemns violations against Palestinians Saudi UN envoy calls for accountability on sexual violence in war, condemns violations against Palestinians Saudi Arabia’s Ambassador to the UN Abdulaziz Alwasil addressing a high-level meeting of the UN Security Council on July 8, 2026. (UN photo) Short Url https://arab.news/v32dc Updated 09 July 2026 12:13 EPHREM KOSSAIFY July 09, 2026 02:45 Follow Abdulaziz Alwasil speaking during top UN Security Council meeting Urges action against perpetrators of offences targeting Palestinians NEW YORK: Saudi Arabia’s Permanent Representative to the UN Abdulaziz Alwasil told the Security Council on Wednesday that sexual violence continues to be used in armed conflicts as a weapon of oppression, intimidation and forced displacement, targeting civilians, particularly women and children. Addressing a high-level council meeting on conflict-related sexual violence and the “Women, Peace and Security” agenda, Alwasil said such acts constitute serious violations of international human rights laws. He noted that the council, through Resolution 1820 adopted in 2008 and subsequent related resolutions, had reaffirmed that conflict-related sexual violence poses a serious threat to international peace and security, and perpetrators must be held accountable. “Addressing this crime is a shared responsibility for the entire international community and all states concerned,” Alwasil said, calling for coordinated efforts to tackle its root causes and protect civilians and victims. The Saudi envoy reaffirmed his country’s commitment to international human rights laws, describing them as rooted in “legal, humanitarian, and moral responsibilities.” He said the Kingdom, guided by the values and principles of Islam, insisted on respect for the provisions of the Geneva Conventions and called for strengthening the means of implementing international humanitarian law. Alwasil condemned all violations committed against civilians and stressed the importance of accountability, adding that assisting and protecting vulnerable groups was “not only a legal obligation imposed by international humanitarian law, but above all, a collective humanitarian and moral responsibility.” He pointed to Saudi Arabia’s aid agency KSrelief as an example of the Kingdom’s international support programs, saying it continues to assist the most vulnerable, including survivors of sexual violence, in cooperation with international humanitarian organizations. Turning to international humanitarian law more broadly, Alwasil said civilians under the authority of a party to a conflict must be treated humanely without discrimination, and protected from all forms of violence and degrading treatment, including torture and killing. He said violations committed in the Palestinian territory, including acts of sexual violence, represent a flagrant violation of international law and shared humanitarian values. And called for urgent international action to halt these violations, protect civilians, and hold those responsible accountable. “Providing protection in the face of sexual violence in areas of armed conflict is a legal obligation from which there can be no derogation,” Alwasil said, closing his remarks with a call to strengthen international cooperation in combating the phenomenon “wherever it may be.” Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA ISRAELI ATROCITIES PALESTINE UN SECURITY COUNCIL ABDULAZIZ ALWASIL SEXUAL VIOLENCE KSRELIEF RELATED SPECIAL PHOTOS What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability UN adds Israeli and Russian forces to blacklist over conflict sexual violence Latest Updates Dubai’s economy grows 2.4% in Q1 Israeli jails a ‘graveyard,’ says freed Palestinian journalist 600 dead in DR Congo Ebola outbreak Saudi business confidence rises to 56.6 in June on stronger non-oil sentiment Saudi industrial output rebounds 3.2% in May despite annual decline Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
