Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Middle East Business & Economy Food & Health What to know about the Lebanon-Israel talks set to start in Rome Previous Pause Next Home Yemen leader says will not allow Iran to drag country into Tehran’s wars Yemen leader says will not allow Iran to drag country into Tehran’s wars Previous 0 seconds of 9 secondsVolume 0% 1 / 2 Smoke rises after reports of a strike hitting near the Sanaa International Airport, as seen from Sanaa, Yemen, July 13, 2026. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah 2 / 2 Smoke rises after reports of a strike hitting near the Sanaa International Airport, as seen from Sanaa, Yemen, July 13, 2026. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah Next Short Url https://arab.news/mnw6c Updated 13 July 2026 18:24 ARAB NEWS July 13, 2026 11:23 Follow Al-Alimi’s comments came after Yemen’s armed forces said they targeted the runway at Sanaa Airport on Monday in order to block an Iranian plane from landing RIYADH: The chairman of Yemen’s presidential leadership council vowed on Monday that he would not allow his country to be dragged into wars that serve Iran’s interests. Rashad Al-Alimi’s comments came after Yemen’s armed forces said they targeted the runway at Sanaa Airport on Monday in order to block an Iranian plane from landing. He said the move was to “protect national sovereignty.” The leader said he had ordered that “the scope of confrontation not be expanded, in order to thwart the objective that Iran seeks to achieve by dragging Yemen and its people into wars that serve its own interests, using Yemen’s land and people as a card in its regional conflict.” “​I also emphasize clearly that the state will not allow any aircraft in the future to violate Yemeni airspace, whether for Sanaa airport or any other airport, and will deter any attempt to impose a fait accompli that compromises its sovereignty, or diminishes its authority over its territories, airspace, and all its ports,” he added. Al-Alimi said that the “Iranian regime bears full responsibility for its continued support and enablement of practices, which contravene international law and UN Security Council resolutions.” After Monday’s incident, Yemen’s ‌general aviation authority ordered the closure of all airports nationwide to air traffic until further notice. It later announced that all airports nationwide are open. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN HOUTHIS YEMEN RELATED Saudi project clears 1,293 explosive devices in Yemen Yemeni military ready for any Houthi escalation, spokesman says Latest Updates New Arab League chief Nabil Fahmy outlines regional priorities Syrian-American business forum debuts in Damascus amid push for investment What to know about the Lebanon-Israel talks set to start in Rome Where We Are Going Today: Opinion SAMA approves Credit Line as Saudi finance companies reach 77 Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN
