Arab News Tuesday . July 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Saudi Arabia Middle East World Why it’s so difficult to fully reopen Strait of Hormuz Previous Pause Next Home Trump urges Netanyahu to withdraw Israeli forces from Syria, Lebanon: Axios Trump urges Netanyahu to withdraw Israeli forces from Syria, Lebanon: Axios UPDATE President ​Donald Trump told Israeli Prime Minister ‌Benjamin ‌Netanyahu ​during ‌a ⁠phone ​call last Thursday ⁠that Israel should ⁠redeploy ‌its ‌forces ​out ‌of Syria ‌and Lebanon, Axios reported ‌on Tuesday, citing ⁠US and ⁠Israeli officials. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/ymd6z Updated 14 July 2026 22:49 ARAB NEWS July 14, 2026 20:27 Follow WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump urged Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to begin withdrawing Israeli forces from parts of Syria and Lebanon, according to a report by Axios on Tuesday, citing US and Israeli officials. The request came during a phone call last Thursday, during which Trump reportedly warned that Israel's military presence in southern Syria risked increasing tensions and could trigger further escalation, Axios said. According to the report, Trump told Netanyahu that Israel should redeploy its forces from Syrian territory because “they don't want you there,” and made a similar appeal regarding Lebanon. Netanyahu, however, argued that Israel needed to maintain security zones along its borders, his office said. The reported conversation took place a day after Trump met Syria's interim President Ahmad Al-Sharaa on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Turkey. The Trump administration has spent months trying to broker a new security arrangement between Israel and Syria that would have included a gradual Israeli withdrawal from territory seized after the collapse of Bashar Assad's government in December 2024. US officials quoted by Axios said those efforts stalled because Netanyahu was unwilling to make the proposed concessions. The issue also comes as Washington seeks to advance a separate security framework between Israel and Lebanon. Under an agreement discussed by US mediators in Rome this week, Israel committed to withdraw from two areas in southern Lebanon to allow the Lebanese army to deploy. Lebanon has called for a timetable for further Israeli withdrawals, while Israeli officials say any redeployment will depend on verifying that the areas are free of Hezbollah weapons and infrastructure. The White House declined to comment on the report but did not deny the account of the call. * With Reuters Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON RELATED Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting VIDEO New Syrian parliament meets for first time in Damascus Latest Updates New US strikes hit Iran’s Qeshm Island amid tensions over Hormuz Strait England lacking Premier League physicality, says Mac Allister Why it’s so difficult to fully reopen Strait of Hormuz Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting Did Egypt’s culture minister’s resignation mark a turning point for copyright protection? Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria EN
