Arab News Saturday . July 11, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA NEWS THE PLACE THE SPACE WHO'S WHO KSA TODAY GREEN & BLUE MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Saudi Arabia Middle East UN experts demand release of detained Algerian journalist Previous Pause Next Home Saudi crown prince, Trump discuss US-Iran talks, Gulf security Saudi crown prince, Trump discuss US-Iran talks, Gulf security UPDATE Short Url https://arab.news/wuj5x Updated 11 July 2026 05:09 ARAB NEWS July 11, 2026 01:49 Follow Leaders stress diplomacy, maritime security amid renewed Mideast tensions Saudi FM, Rubio discuss coordination as US-Iran tensions simmer RIYADH: Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and US President Donald Trump discussed regional security, maritime navigation and ongoing US-Iran contacts during a telephone call on Friday, as Riyadh and Washington stepped up diplomatic coordination following a renewed flare-up in Gulf tensions. According to the Saudi Press Agency (SPA), the two leaders reviewed bilateral cooperation and ways to strengthen ties across various sectors. They also exchanged views on regional and international developments, including discussions between Washington and Tehran. The crown prince and Trump stressed the importance of safeguarding maritime navigation, protecting international sea lanes and supporting efforts aimed at enhancing regional security and stability. Separately, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan held a phone call with US Secretary of State Marco Rubio, during which the two reaffirmed the importance of continued coordination and consultations to promote security and stability across the region, SPA reported. The calls came after a fresh escalation between the United States and Iran that threatened to undermine recent diplomatic efforts to end months of hostilities. The latest crisis erupted after Iranian forces attacked commercial oil tankers transiting the Strait of Hormuz despite a ceasefire agreement, prompting US airstrikes on targets inside Iran. Tehran later retaliated with missile and drone attacks against US allies in the Gulf, raising fears of a wider regional conflict. The renewed violence has intensified international calls for Washington and Tehran to return to negotiations. Egypt and Qatar have urged both sides to resume dialogue and implement the memorandum of understanding reached earlier this year as the basis for a broader settlement, while Pakistan has appealed for restraint and offered to continue mediating between the two countries. Trump said on Friday that the United States had agreed to continue talks with Iran, although he declared that the ceasefire was effectively over following the latest exchange of attacks. Saudi Arabia has consistently called for restraint, dialogue and diplomatic solutions to preserve regional stability and ensure the security of international shipping routes, particularly through the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most critical energy transit corridors. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN CROWN PRINCE MOHAMMED BIN SALMAN DONALD TRUMP RELATED US demands Iran publicly state that Strait of Hormuz is open and Tehran won’t attack ships anymore Fire at western Iranian mini-refinery contained, Iran media says Latest Updates Syria uncovers explosives cache linked to Damascus bombing cell World Cup quarterfinal resale prices drop, FIFA selling nearly 1,200 more seats for final at $7,380 Passengers pull back man partly sucked out of broken window on Ryanair flight Saudi crown prince, Trump discuss US-Iran talks, Gulf security DOJ charges white supremacist after threats to US lawmaker, Muslims and transgender people Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
