Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Art & Culture Lifestyle Sport Business & Economy Media Middle East Closing Bell: Saudi main index closes in green at 10,852 Previous Pause Next Home Attacked Qatari LNG tanker Al-Rekayyat is at risk of exploding: Reuters Attacked Qatari LNG tanker Al-Rekayyat is at risk of exploding: Reuters Previous UPDATE 1 / 2 This photo taken on May 8, 2026, shows the crude oil tanker Odessa — carrying UAE crude after passing through the Strait of Hormuz with its Automatic Identification System transponder turned off — being guided by tugboats as it navigates the waters at Daesan port in Seosan, South Korea. (Reuters/File Photo) UPDATE 2 / 2 Crude oil tanker Odessa, carrying UAE crude, arrives at Daesan port in Seosan, South Korea on May 8, 2026, after passing unharmed through the Strait of Hormuz. (Reuters/File Photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/mrzgj Updated 07 July 2026 16:55 REUTERS July 07, 2026 14:45 Follow Two commercial ships suffered significant damage but no casualties, Axios reports Qatar on Tuesday condemned Iran for the attack DUBAI: The Qatari LNG tanker Al-Rekayyat that was earlier hit by Iranian missiles is at risk of exploding due to a fire in its engine room, a source briefed on the incident told Reuters. Al-Rekayyat suffered significant damage after the vessel was hit as it traveled through the Omani side of the Strait of Hormuz, four sources with knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday, after reports that Iran’s Revolutionary Guards fired missiles at ships transiting the waterway overnight. It is the first time an LNG ship from Qatar, which is a mediator in the talks between Washington and Tehran, has been struck since the start of the Iran war at the end of February. Qatar on Tuesday condemned Iran for the attack. “The targeting of the Qatari vessel ‘Al-Rekayyat’ while transiting near the Strait of Hormuz constitutes an unacceptable attack on the security & safety of international maritime navigation,” foreign ministry spokesman Majed Al Ansari wrote on X adding Qatar holds Iran “fully legally responsible for this attack & for any resulting damages & consequences.” Al-Rekayyat was loaded with liquefied natural gas and sent out distress signals seeking assistance after it was hit on its port side, one of the sources said, adding the crew were safe. ‌The engine room ‌was on fire and filled with smoke and the crew was unable to ​assess ‌further ⁠damage, they added. The ​reports ⁠underscored the persistent risks to shipping around the Strait of Hormuz despite the safe passage provisions included in an interim agreement between Washington and Tehran. Iran’s assertion of control over the narrow waterway between it and Oman, through which about a fifth of global oil shipments passed before the conflict, has emerged as one of the most contentious consequences of the US-Israeli war with Iran. “Now if we use the 100 percent safe Iranian waters, it means we are dealing with Iranians and admitting the SOH is under their control. If we pass through US/Oman, then you get hit,” one of the sources said. “The US gives you permission to pass but if something happens ⁠on the way, they then say, ‘It is your decision to keep moving or go ‌back’.” The sources declined to be named because they were not authorized to speak ‌with the media. The Al-Rekayyat is owned and managed by Nakilat, also known ​as Qatar Gas Transport Company Ltd, which operates one of ‌the world’s largest LNG shipping fleets. LSEG shipping data showed it last transmitted its location on June 18, indicating it ‌was traveling with its transponders switched off. Renewed US threats Axios earlier reported the IRGC fired at least two missiles at commercial ships transiting through the Strait of Hormuz on Monday night, citing two US officials. Two commercial ships suffered significant damage but there were no casualties, the report said, citing a US official. The Al-Rekayyat’s location at the time it was hit, given by one of the sources, matches the ‌position described in an advisory from Britain’s maritime security agency, indicating it was the tanker involved in that incident. The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations agency (UKMTO) said the tanker was struck ⁠on its port side by ⁠an unknown projectile while traveling southbound about 8 nautical miles (15 km) east of Oman’s Limah, causing a fire. No casualties or environmental impact had been reported, UKMTO said. Reuters could not immediately verify the Axios report, and could not determine whether the Al-Rekayyat was among the two ships it described. Nakilat, QatarEnergy, Qatar’s International Media Office and US Central Command did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Indirect US-Iran talks ended last week without any public sign of headway toward a lasting peace, despite a 60-day ceasefire intended to create space for diplomacy to end the conflict. President Donald Trump said on Monday the US would either reach a deal with Iran or “finish the job,” renewing his threat of military action as Tehran projects defiance following the funeral of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the initial US-Israeli attacks. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards warned ships via maritime radio over the weekend that “our missiles and drones are ready to fire at you,” the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, quoting from a ​recording it obtained. Investors have been keeping a close eye ​on talks between the US and Iran over the fate of shipping through the Strait of Hormuz while tracking the recovery in Gulf oil exports. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED VIDEO Trump says there will either be a deal with Iran or US will ‘finish the job’ UPDATE VIDEO Iranian mourners call for vengeance on Trump during Khamenei funeral procession Latest Updates Lebanon must remove Hezbollah threat from south: German minister Abha is home to SEVEN’s first Saudi attraction Closing Bell: Saudi main index closes in green at 10,852 Workshop at Hayy Jameel explores AI-powered content creation Israeli strikes kill three people in Gaza, medics say Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
