Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Middle East Sport Saudi interior minister receives Pakistani counterpart in Riyadh Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon and Syria join US-led Middle East military talks Lebanon and Syria join US-led Middle East military talks Senior military officials from Middle East countries attend a "security dialogue" led by the US military. (US Centcom) Short Url https://arab.news/jx3xh Updated 01 July 2026 22:47 ARAB NEWS July 01, 2026 22:07 Follow Defense officials from the 2 countries take part for first time in a security meeting with US Central Command and other nations from the region Military leaders from Gulf and elsewhere say they are committed to free flow of commerce through Strait of Hormuz LONDON: Military leaders from Syria and Lebanon for the first time joined other commanders from across the Middle East at a US defense conference on Wednesday. The regional security dialogue took place in the Bahraini capital, Manama, and was led by US Central Command, which coordinates military operations and cooperation across the Middle East and parts of Asia. The other participants from the region included Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, the UAE and Yemen. The meeting took place as negotiations continue between Washington and Tehran for a peace agreement, after the two sides last month signed a deal to end their conflict. A key aspect of the talks has been the full reopening to international shipping of the Strait of Hormuz, which Iran blocked when the war began four months ago. Central Command said the military chiefs at the meeting discussed the regional security situation and “opportunities for enhancing defense collaboration across the region.” It added: “Leaders underscored their shared commitment to the free flow of commerce through the Strait of Hormuz.” Adm. Brad Cooper, the head of Central Command, said: “We continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with our regional partners. The discussions underscored our shared commitment to regional security and stability.” The US has increased its cooperation with Syria as the new authorities in Damascus move to improve relations with Washington after the fall of President Bashar Assad and his regime in December 2024, after a 14-year civil war. The role of the Lebanese Armed Forces, which have long received financial support from the US, was recognized in an agreement reached last week between Lebanon and Israel. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN BATTLEFIELD LEBANON FALL OF ASSAD RELATED UPDATE US Central Command chief: Iran’s ability to threaten neighbors dramatically degraded UPDATE US military says it used missile fire to disable a third tanker trying to break its blockade on Iran Latest Updates New York prepares for Taylor Swift-Travis Kelce wedding Saudi interior minister receives Pakistani counterpart in Riyadh What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Princeton Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs: Ornithischians’ by Bryce Jones Salah fitness race in focus for Egypt ahead of Australia clash Israeli lawmakers move to restrict mosque loudspeakers Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
