Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Sport Germany seeks powers for spies to hack and disrupt attackers Previous Pause Next Home Lebanese president says will not yield ‘a single inch’ of territory to Israel Lebanese president says will not yield ‘a single inch’ of territory to Israel Lebanese President Joseph Aoun defended on Thursday negotiations with Israel, saying they were not a betrayal and he would not surrender “a single inch of Lebanon’s territory.” (AP/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/c9hg2 Updated 02 July 2026 19:08 AFP July 02, 2026 19:01 Follow Lebanon signed last week a US-backed framework agreement with Israel with the aim of securing peace between the two countries The latest war erupted on March 2 when Hezbollah launched missiles at Israel in retaliation for US-Israeli strikes on Iran BEIRUT: Lebanese President Joseph Aoun defended on Thursday negotiations with Israel, saying they were not a betrayal and he would not surrender “a single inch of Lebanon’s territory,” according to the presidency. Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said on Wednesday that the Israeli army would remain “until further notice” in what it describes as “security zones” in Lebanon, Syria and the Gaza Strip. Lebanon signed last week a US-backed framework agreement with Israel with the aim of securing peace between the two countries — a move that has been met with major protest from Iran-backed Hezbollah. Negotiations with Israel are not “treason but a diplomatic war without unnecessary bloodshed,” Aoun said on Thursday. The latest war erupted on March 2 when Hezbollah launched missiles at Israel in retaliation for US-Israeli strikes that killed Iran’s supreme leader. Israel responded with airstrikes and a ground invasion that have killed more than 4,200 people in Lebanon, according to the authorities. The Lebanese president said that Beirut has decided to engage in talks “to guarantee Israel’s withdrawal from its territory.” “We will not yield a single inch of Lebanese territory,” Aoun declared. The framework agreement envisions the Lebanese army gradually establishing its authority over south Lebanon as Hezbollah disarms and Israel withdraws, but does not set a timeline for this. The process will be detailed in a security annex, the contents of which have not been made public. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, on a visit to the so-called “security zone” in south Lebanon on Tuesday, reaffirmed that forces would remain there so long as Hezbollah remained a threat. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED SPECIAL Can Lebanon still prosecute Israel for war crimes under framework agreement? Syria, Lebanon form joint ministerial committee on security, economy Latest Updates Lebanese president says will not yield ‘a single inch’ of territory to Israel Samaira Dharnidharka to lead UAE in the ACC Women’s U19 Premier Cup 2026 in Malaysia Can Kawhi Leonard lead Raptors to another NBA title? Germany seeks powers for spies to hack and disrupt attackers Klopp poised to replace Nagelsmann as Germany coach: reports Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
