Arab News Friday . June 19, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Saudi Arabia World Middle East Offbeat Netherlands redirects frigate to Strait of Hormuz for possible mission Previous Pause Next Home 47 killed in airstrikes as Israel and Hezbollah agree to ceasefire 47 killed in airstrikes as Israel and Hezbollah agree to ceasefire Previous 0 seconds of 57 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE A photograph taken from the southern Lebanese region of Marjayoun shows smoke rising following an Israeli strike near Nabatieh Al-Fawqa on June 19, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/jgm98 Updated 19 June 2026 17:32 ARAB NEWS June 19, 2026 14:40 Follow The ceasefire took effect at 4 p.m. local ‌time ‌on Friday ‘What we are witnessing today … constitutes a dangerous and condemned escalation’ Lebanon’s state news agency NNA reported heavy displacement from the southern districts of Tyre and Bint Jbeil JERUSALEM/DUBAI: Israeli airstrikes and bombardments killed at least 47 people and wounded 97 others in Lebanon since midnight Friday, according to the latest updated toll from the Lebanese health ministry. The dead included at least seven women and two children and the figures were released as a new ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah was due to start. Israel and Iran-backed Hezbollah agreed to a ceasefire beginning at 4 p.m. local time on Friday, a US official said, after an escalation in hostilities in Lebanon sorely tested the US-Iranian interim deal to end the wider Middle East conflict. A senior Israeli ​official and two Hezbollah sources confirmed the ceasefire to Reuters. “If Hezbollah does not attack us, then for us it is not a time of war,” the Israeli official said. Israeli forces would remain in southern Lebanon, the official added. But nearly an hour after the truce was meant to take effect, a Reuters journalist in northern Israel said Israeli strikes could still be seen taking place across the border in Lebanon. A plume of smoke rose from behind a Lebanese village near the frontier. Israel reported four of its soldiers killed in south Lebanon in one of the deadliest Hezbollah attacks of the ‌war. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would make Hezbollah pay 'heavy price' for the killing of the soldiers. The Iran deal ‌requires the US, Iran, and their allies to declare an immediate and ​permanent ‌termination ⁠of military operations ​on ⁠all fronts, including Lebanon. Violence has picked up over the course of the week after initially abating when the agreement was first announced. Hezbollah lawmaker Hassan Fadlallah earlier told Reuters that Iran had informed the group that talks with Washington could not continue without a comprehensive ceasefire. The senior US official told Reuters that the ceasefire was worked out by negotiators for the US and Qataris with help from Iran. “Hezbollah and Israel have agreed to a ceasefire,” the US official said. “We understand that after the exchange of fire earlier today, Israel and Hezbollah are now in a ceasefire.” Israel, which was not consulted in the negotiations that ⁠led to this week’s US memorandum of understanding with Iran, has bristled at the apparent ‌requirement that it halt its campaign in Lebanon, which it invaded after ‌Hezbollah fired across the border in solidarity with Tehran on March 2. The ​Israeli official said Israel had the freedom to ‌act against emerging threats and threats to its forces and territory. Earlier, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had vowed to “extract a ‌very heavy price” from Hezbollah for the killing of the four soldiers. Israeli officials have voiced anger at the US-Iran pact, saying it does not go far enough to address Israeli concerns over Iran’s nuclear program. AOUN CONDEMNATION President Joseph Aoun on Friday condemned the ongoing Israeli escalation of attacks in Lebanon, but said the military attacks would not deter effort to reach a comprehensive ceasefire as quickly as possible. “What we are witnessing today in the South and the Bekaa Valley in terms of the expansion of Israeli attacks and more killing and destruction constitutes a dangerous and condemned escalation, especially since it has affected dozens of innocents, including women and children, and practically targets all ongoing efforts to consolidate the ceasefire and end the war, particularly after the recent developments that occurred between the United States of America and the Islamic Republic of Iran,” the Lebanese presidency posted on social media. “However, this will not deter efforts to achieve a comprehensive ceasefire as quickly as possible, and this is what I instructed the Lebanese negotiating delegation to pursue in the next round in Washington.” Aoun added: “There can be no leniency on this matter, because a comprehensive ceasefire is the gateway to addressing other issues, the most important of which are the Israeli withdrawal, the deployment of the army, and the return of the prisoners.” DEADLY AIRSTRIKES Israel said it carried out strikes targeting Hezbollah operatives and infrastructure across several areas in response to repeated Hezbollah ceasefire violations. Hezbollah denied it had violated the ceasefire, and accused Israel of repeatedly ‌violating truce terms, including the terms of the US-Iran agreement. A statement from the group accused Israeli forces of carrying out attacks that killed civilians, destroying homes and ⁠infrastructure, and continuing its ⁠ground incursions. FIGHTING FOR HIGH GROUND Heavy fighting overnight was concentrated in an area north of the Litani River known as Ali Al-Taher hill — high ground strategically important to Hezbollah where Israeli forces had sought to advance, a senior Lebanese security source said. Hezbollah said its fighters ambushed an Israeli force advancing near the hill, destroying three Merkava tanks with guided missiles and targeting troops with rocket and artillery fire. Hezbollah said it later attacked Israeli forces that had sought to enter the area to retrieve casualties. Israel has seized a self-declared security zone in the south, saying it aims to shield northern Israel from Hezbollah attack. Its forces have been razing villages in the south where they say Hezbollah has embedded itself. Hezbollah has continued to launch attacks on Israeli positions in the south this week, including with explosive drones that have killed and injured troops. Lebanon’s health ministry has recorded 3,912 people killed in Lebanon as a result of Israeli attacks since ​March 2, including 746 medics, women and children. Israel’s death ​toll from this round of hostilities with Hezbollah includes at least 32 soldiers and four Israeli civilians. * With Reuters and AFP Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON HEZBOLLAH ISRAEL RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Israeli minister says ‘all of Lebanon must burn’ after four soldiers killed Residents return to war-ravaged southern Lebanon with hope and sorrow after the US-Iran deal Latest Updates Fritz gets revenge on Shelton to reach Halle semis Iran deal fails to address rights inside country: UN experts Iraq to export crude, naphtha through Syria after Hormuz shock Netherlands redirects frigate to Strait of Hormuz for possible mission Man freed on bail after toddler found in UK zoo’s crocodile pen Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit EN
