Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy World Middle East Media Netanyahu vows to break free from dependency, pleadges to manufacture own arms Israel smuggled Starlink systems into Iran, former PM says Previous Pause Next Home Netanyahu vows to break free from dependency, pledges to manufacture own arms Netanyahu vows to break free from dependency, pledges to manufacture own arms Previous 0 seconds of 48 secondsVolume 0% In this handout picture taken and released by the Israeli Prime Minister's Office on November 26, 2023 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (C) meets soldiers at undisclosed location in the Gaza Strip. (File/AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/8sxjc Updated 23 June 2026 13:42 ARAB NEWS June 23, 2026 13:07 Follow DUBAI: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday that Israel must develop an independent defense industry and reduce its reliance on foreign weapons supplies, while praising support from the United States. Speaking during a meeting with a reserve combat officers’ course at Kibbutz Migdal Oz in Gush Etzion, Netanyahu said Israel’s future security depended on building its own military capabilities. “I deeply appreciate the support we have received, and which I have also brought over the years, from our American friends,” Netanyahu said. “But today I say: We need our own independent armaments network. We must manufacture our own armaments.” Netanyahu said Israel was facing threats from Iran and its regional allies, adding that while Israel had “dealt them blows,” the conflict was not over. “Where we will be 30 years from now depends on our strength,” he said, stressing the need to expand military production, integrate technology and train future generations of commanders. Follow Topics: ISRAEL US RELATED Israeli gunfire kills two people in south Lebanon, civil defense says Killings and harm to Palestinian children central to Israel’s genocide in Gaza, UN inquiry finds Latest Updates Kenya halts US Ebola facility: health minister tells court Saudi assets under management to exceed $400bn by 2027: Fitch Netanyahu vows to break free from dependency, pleadges to manufacture own arms Israel smuggled Starlink systems into Iran, former PM says Egypt approves 2026/27 budget, economic development plan Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
