Arab News Thursday . June 25, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Offbeat Middle East Sport Football Mexico beat Czech Republic 3-0 to win all 3 World Cup group-stage matches for 1st time Previous Pause Next Home Iran slams NATO chief’s comments on US support in war Iran slams NATO chief’s comments on US support in war Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Esmail Baqaei responds to reporters during the weekly press conference held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the capital Tehran, Iran. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/b6ae8 Updated 25 June 2026 07:34 AFP June 25, 2026 04:20 Follow Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei condemned the NATO chief’s admission of “active complicity” in the “unlawful war” TEHRAN: Tehran accused NATO on Thursday of “complicity” in the US-Israeli war against Iran, after the bloc’s chief noted its support for the United States in the conflict. Responding to US President Donald Trump’s criticism of allies for not supporting the war, NATO boss Mark Rutte told Fox News that hundreds of American planes launched from bases in Italy. Trump’s second term has been marked by tensions with NATO allies, who have voiced skepticism over the need for the conflict in the Middle East. “Country after country, ally after ally after ally, have made their bases available for Epic Fury,” Rutte told US TV channel Fox News, referring to the US military operation in Iran. “Five hundred US planes took off from US bases in Italy to support Epic Fury,” he said, referring the US name for the operation against Iran. Trump had told Rutte on Wednesday he was “let down” by members of the alliance who did not back his war against Iran. Rutte also told Fox News that Romania “cut down on commercial air flights and airplanes because they had to use the airports for the tanker facilities” during the Iran war. Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei condemned the NATO chief’s admission of “active complicity” in the “unlawful war.” “This is a clear and damning admission of NATO’s active complicity in an unlawful war of aggression against a sovereign UN Member State,” Baqaei wrote on X. He accused NATO of “a flagrant violation of peremptory norms of international law and the core principles of the UN Charter.” Italy was quick to distance itself from Rutte’s words, which the defense ministry said gave “a completely misleading message by confusing the type of flights that were authorized.” It said Italy had allowed only “technical and logistical” US flights during Epic Fury under existing agreements with the United States. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN NATO US RELATED VIDEO Trump, Republican senator engage in shouting match over Iran war Using flattery, Rutte tries to ease NATO tensions with Trump over Iran Latest Updates Iran slams NATO chief’s comments on US support in war A cancer patient’s cats inspired a push for pets in hospice wards Mexico beat Czech Republic 3-0 to win all 3 World Cup group-stage matches for 1st time Trump says Venezuelan earthquakes caused a ‘devastating number of deaths’ South Africa stun South Korea, advance in second place from Group A Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
