Arab News Friday . July 10, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Art & Culture World Sport Saudi Arabia Football Florida airport renamed ‘Trump’ in latest push to expand his brand Previous Pause Next Home Syria authorities say captured Daesh-linked cell behind blasts Syria authorities say captured Daesh-linked cell behind blasts Two explosions rocked Damascus on July 7 during French President Emmanuel Macron's visit. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/n6hjz Updated 10 July 2026 06:45 AFP July 09, 2026 18:33 Follow Syria’s interior minister says authorities ⁠will reveal cell members’ identities after investigations DAMASCUS: ‌Syrian officials on Thursday said the country had captured a Daesh-linked cell responsible for two bomb blasts during French President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Damascus earlier this week. “The cell responsible for the terrorist bombings that targeted Damascus two days ago is now in our custody,” Interior Minister Anas Khattab posted on X. “Once the investigations are completed, we will reveal to the public the identities of the cell’s members, their roles, and all of their affiliations and connections,” he added. Ahmad Dalati, head of interior security for the Damascus region, said on Syrian state television that preliminary investigations indicated “the cell was affiliated with Daesh.” The interior ministry said in a statement that the cell had been captured following a series of raids “carried out at the same time against the suspects’ different locations across Damascus and its countryside.” The statement said the raids occurred in four neighborhoods, two of which have populations from toppled ruler Bashar Assad’s Alawite minority. Two blasts hit central Damascus on Tuesday, killing one person and wounding dozens during the French president’s first visit to Syria. The blasts near the hotel where Macron had spent the night came after his departure from the building, and moments before Syrian state media announced his arrival at the presidential palace to meet his Syrian counterpart Ahmed Al-Sharaa. In a joint news conference after the blast, Macron said we must “not let ourselves be destabilized” by such attacks, and reiterated Paris’s support for the country. Macron became the first head of state from the European Union to visit Syria since the fall of Assad in 2024. Syria last year joined the US-led coalition against Daesh, a jihadist group that was largely wiped out in Iraq and Syria by 2019. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD SYRIA RELATED Syria says Damascus blasts killed one, wounded 36 SPECIAL Macron’s Damascus visit signals French bid for influence in new Syria, analysts say Latest Updates Arab teams at 2026 World Cup: Morocco coach Ouahbi vows team will come back stronger after World Cup exit Six Saudi AI and digital projects earn top honors at WSIS 2026 Florida airport renamed ‘Trump’ in latest push to expand his brand Trump’s plan for a triumphal arch in DC wins early approval from a key federal agency FIFA Scandal: Former referees question different fates of Balogun, Quansah Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
