Arab News Monday . June 22, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Business & Economy Saudi Arabia World SWA unveils 18 investment opportunities to localize water industries, services Previous Pause Next Home Iran president to visit Pakistan on Tuesday: state media Iran president to visit Pakistan on Tuesday: state media This handout picture released by the Iranian Presidency shows Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian signing a memorandum of understanding in Tehran on June 18, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/ysepy Updated 22 June 2026 19:31 REUTERS June 22, 2026 11:14 Follow Thanking Pakistani PM Sharif for his mediation efforts in US-Iran talks main purpose of visit: president’s office TEHRAN: Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian will travel to Pakistan on Tuesday, state media reported, following talks between Tehran and Washington in Switzerland which were mediated by Islamabad. Expressing appreciation to Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif for “his mediation between Iran and the United States” is among the objectives of the visit, Habibollah Abbasi, director of public relations at the president’s office, said, according to the IRNA state news agency. Pezeshkian’s visit would come after Iran’s senior envoys held a marathon negotiating session with the US in Switzerland. Mediators Pakistan and Qatar said the negotiators reached agreement on a “roadmap towards reaching a final deal within 60 days,” with technical talks to continue for the rest of the week at the Swiss resort. Meanwhile, Iran’s top negotiator ​Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf is on his way to Oman ‌to ‌discuss ​joint ‌efforts ⁠to “consolidate” ​Iranian arrangements ⁠for managing shipping in the Strait of ⁠Hormuz, according ‌to ‌a ​statement ‌on ‌his Telegram channel on Monday. The Iranian delegation to Oman ‌also includes Foreign Minister ⁠Abbas Araqchi, the ⁠statement said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN PAKISTAN IRAN RELATED VIDEO Vance says US-Iran talks lay ‘good foundation’ for final peace deal After Iran-US talks, Swiss eye ‘immediate resumption’ of technical discussions Latest Updates Saudi FM arrives in Amman to attend Arab League meeting Jordanian army chief, Pakistani drone commander discuss military cooperation SWA unveils 18 investment opportunities to localize water industries, services Lebanon backs deconfliction cell proposal, but ties support to Israeli withdrawal Syrian officials discuss demining efforts in Geneva with European partners Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? EN
