Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East World Syria has made no progress on Sweida reintegration plan, UN says Previous Pause Next Home Iran chief negotiator says Hormuz will be administered by Tehran: state media Iran chief negotiator says Hormuz will be administered by Tehran: state media UPDATE Iran’s Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf is pictured after meeting his Lebanese counterpart in Beirut on October 12, 2024. (AFP file photo) Updated 23 June 2026 04:57 AFP June 23, 2026 04:05 Follow The United States temporarily suspended sanctions on Iranian oil on Monday after Vice President JD Vance said Tehran would allow UN nuclear inspectors to return to the country, following the talks As part of the deal, Tehran is also set to get some form of sanctions relief from Washington, as well as the unfreezing of assets TEHRAN: Iran’s chief negotiator Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf said that the Strait of Hormuz will be administered by Tehran, state media reported on Tuesday, following talks pushing to end the US-Israeli war on the Islamic republic. Iran and the United States agreed on Monday to set up communication lines to keep the vital shipping route open and end fighting in Lebanon, mediators said, after their first round of talks in Switzerland toward ending the conflict that has engulfed the Middle East. “The Strait of Hormuz will never return to its pre-war conditions and will be administered by the Islamic Republic of Iran, in accordance with international law,” Ghalibaf said on his return from the talks, according to IRNA. In a video posted to Ghalibaf’s Telegram account, he said the talks at the luxury Swiss resort of Burgenstock produced “good achievements.” “In my view, this trip had good achievements, especially regarding the discussion of the Strait, the Lebanon discussions, the question of oil waiver, and the matter of releasing the frozen funds,” he said. The United States temporarily suspended sanctions on Iranian oil on Monday after Vice President JD Vance said Tehran would allow UN nuclear inspectors to return to the country, following the talks. As part of the deal, Tehran is also set to get some form of sanctions relief from Washington, as well as the unfreezing of assets. “Of course, we believe we are still at the beginning of this work and must continue our efforts,” Ghalibaf added in the video. Iranian state media reported that Ghalibaf made a stop in Oman, which shares the Strait of Hormuz. The waterway, which Iran closed at the start of the war, reopened last week, after Washington and Tehran reached an agreement. But Tehran announced on Saturday it had closed the strait again in response to Israeli attacks in Lebanon. Since then, Tehran and Washington have agreed to establish a line of communication “to avoid incidents and miscommunication with the aim of safe passage for commercial vessels” through the waterway, according to Qatari and Pakistani mediators. Maritime traffic in the strait continued to flow on Monday at a faster pace than before the US-Iranian agreement on talks to end the war, according to tracking firms. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN USA IRAN RELATED VIDEO Vance says US-Iran talks lay ‘good foundation’ for final peace deal SPECIAL GRAPHIC What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? Latest Updates Iran chief negotiator says Hormuz will be administered by Tehran: state media Mbappe shines with 2 goals as France beat Iraq to book place in World Cup Round of 32 Syria has made no progress on Sweida reintegration plan, UN says Saudi FM meets Mauritanian counterpart on sidelines of Arab League session Andy Burnham: ‘King of the North’ with Downing Street in his sights Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
