Arab News Sunday . June 21, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Business & Economy Undav scores twice, saves Germany with 2-1 World Cup win over Ivory Coast Previous Pause Next Home Israeli fire kills nine people in Gaza, including a child and journalist, medics say Israeli fire kills nine people in Gaza, including a child and journalist, medics say UPDATE Displaced Palestinians carry the body of a man killed in an Israeli airstrike for burial from the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, on June 18, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/rt85v Updated 21 June 2026 03:13 REUTERS June 20, 2026 09:56 Follow Al Jazeera says its journalist is among those killed Hamas, Israel trade blame over truce violations CAIRO: Israeli strikes and gunfire killed ‚Äãat least nine people, including a child and a journalist from Al Jazeera, in the Gaza Strip on Saturday, health officials said. An Israeli airstrike killed four Palestinians, including two women and a child, in an apartment building in Gaza City, health officials said. The attack on the building in the Sabra neighborhood of Gaza City destroyed the apartment and wounded several other people, medics added. The Israeli military said it struck a militant, without elaborating. In another incident, Israeli forces shot and killed a woman in Beit Lahiya town further north, medics said. An Israeli airstrike killed at least one person and wounded eight others in Khan Younis, south of the enclave. Later on ‚ÄåSaturday, an Israeli ‚Äåairstrike killed three people, medics said, including Ahmed Wishah, a journalist working ‚Äãfor ‚ÄåAl Jazeera, ‚ÅÝin the ‚ÄãBureij ‚ÅÝrefugee camp in the central Gaza Strip. Al Jazeera said Wishah, a cameraman, was killed in what the network called a ‚Äúheinous crime,‚Äù about two months after his brother, Mohammed Wishah, also an Al Jazeera journalist, was killed by the Israeli military. The Palestinian Journalist Syndicate condemned Wishah‚Äôs killing on Saturday and called for Israeli leaders to be held accountable for such attacks, which have killed nearly 300 Palestinian journalists since the war began in October 2023. Israel has often claimed without evidence that the journalists it has targeted in Gaza were linked to militants, including Hamas. The Israeli military said in ‚ÅÝa statement it killed a Hamas militant, who posed a threat and served ‚Äåas an Al Jazeera photojournalist. It did not provide evidence. It ‚Äåsaid Wishah served as a ‚Äúsniper,‚Äù adding that he was killed along with ‚Äãtwo other Hamas militants. It had also accused the brother ‚Äåit killed in April of being a senior Hamas armed operative. Hamas and Al Jazeera denied that Wishah ‚Äåhad any affiliation with the group. ‚ÄúAl Jazeera Media Network condemns the deliberate killing of its Al Jazeera Mubasher Channel‚Äôs cameraman Ahmed Wishah by Israeli occupation forces today, Saturday 20 June, in an Israeli bombardment that targeted a house in the Bureij camp in the central Gaza Strip,‚Äù Al Jazeera said in a statement. The latest killing raised the number of Al ‚ÄåJazeera journalists killed by Israel in Gaza since October 2023 to 12, Al Jazeera said. An October ceasefire has halted major fighting between Hamas and Israel, but it ‚ÅÝhas not ended Israeli ‚ÅÝattacks. Gaza‚Äôs health ministry said more than 1,010 Palestinians had been killed by Israeli fire since the ceasefire. Militants killed four Israeli soldiers in Gaza over the same period. Israel says its strikes are aimed at thwarting imminent attacks by Hamas and other militants. Hamas rarely discloses information about the deaths of its fighters. Israel and Hamas remain deadlocked over how to proceed with the next stage of US President Donald Trump‚Äôs Gaza plan, which involves Hamas laying down its arms and Israeli withdrawals. Talks held by mediators Egypt, Qatar, Turkiye and Trump‚Äôs Board of Peace envoy for Gaza, Nickolay Mladenov, over the implementation of the second phase of Trump‚Äôs Gaza plan, have not yet reached an agreement, sources close to the talks said. Israel says Hamas must cede power in Gaza, disarm, and play no role in the future governance of the enclave. Hamas links any full disarmament to launching ‚Äãa political track toward establishing a Palestinian state. Hamas-led fighters ‚Äãkilled 1,200 people during their cross-border attack into Israel on October 7, 2023, according to Israeli tallies. The Gaza health ministry said more than 73,000 Palestinians have been killed in the territory since then. Follow Topics: WAR IN GAZA ISRAEL HAMAS RELATED PHOTOS UN aid chief demands ‚Äòdignity‚Äô for Gaza Strip‚Äôs population SPECIAL VIDEO Gaza ceasefire ‚Äòfailing‚Äô as hunger, rats and rubble define daily life, UN humanitarian chief warns Latest Updates Counterterror police investigate after 5 hurt in Edinburgh attacks that appeared to target Muslims Report says UK PM Starmer ready to quit, but source says he is still focused on the job Al-Futtaim BYD Saudi Arabia accelerates growth with new Jazan showroom Undav scores twice, saves Germany with 2-1 World Cup win over Ivory Coast Congo says confirmed Ebola cases rise to 956, including 247 deaths Editor‚Äôs Choice MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel‚Äôs new ‚Äòsecurity belts‚Äô could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‚Äòwe are not leaving Gaza‚Äô despite mounting challenges EN
