Arab News Friday . July 03, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Media Middle East Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia condemns bombing at Damascus cafe Previous Pause Next Home Human rights catastrophe unfolding in Sudan’s Al-Obeid, says UN’s Turk Human rights catastrophe unfolding in Sudan’s Al-Obeid, says UN’s Turk A displaced Sudanese woman and child stand near a make shift shelter in the southwestern edge of Tawila, in war-torn Sudan's western Darfur region. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/7nwmn Updated 03 July 2026 17:13 REUTERS July 03, 2026 08:19 Follow Turk said civilians had been subjected to siege-like ‌conditions ⁠for 18 months, with ⁠critical shortages of clean water in Al-Obeid He told delegates his office had documented patterns of summary executions, abductions, torture and sexual violence GENEVA: Another human rights catastrophe is unfolding in Sudan around the besieged city of Al-Obeid, the United Nations human rights chief said on Friday, warning of a pattern of atrocities and urging the world to act. Al-Obeid is the capital of North Kordofan state, a focus of recent fighting in a war between Sudan’s army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) that began more than three years ago and has caused a vast humanitarian crisis. UN High Commissioner ‌for Human Rights ‌Volker Turk said civilians had been subjected to siege-like ‌conditions ⁠for 18 months, with ⁠critical shortages of clean water in Al-Obeid and relentless drone strikes. During a debate at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Turk told delegates his office had documented patterns of summary executions, abductions, torture and sexual violence along the routes taken by displaced people across the Kordofan region. He urged the international community not to allow a repeat of the widespread atrocities that took place in Al-Fashir in North Darfur ⁠last year. “The signs from Al-Obeid are clear and unmistakable: ‌Another human rights catastrophe is unfolding in Sudan, ‌this time in the capital of the strategic state of North Kordofan,” Turk said. CIVILIANS KILLED ‌BY DRONES The session was called by Britain, whose envoy previously warned that ‌up to 500,000 civilians were at risk of large-scale atrocities as the RSF reportedly massed forces around Al-Obeid, one of Sudan’s largest cities, and a place where people displaced from other conflict areas have sought shelter. As in other conflicts, the war in Sudan ‌has become increasingly dominated by drone strikes, which often cause civilian casualties. At least 45 civilians were killed and 41 injured ⁠in 15 drone strikes ⁠in Al-Obeid and surrounding areas between June 6 and 28, according to the UN human rights office. Human rights groups have documented alleged war crimes by both sides in the war, and the RSF has been accused of repeated atrocities and ethnic violence, including in its stronghold of Darfur in western Sudan. In Al-Fashir, at least 6,000 people were killed in just three days when the RSF captured the besieged and famine-struck city in late October, according to the UN human rights office. The office found the RSF and allied militia committed war crimes and crimes against humanity, including mass killings, summary executions, sexual violence, and torture. The foreign minister in Sudan’s army-aligned government, Mohieldin Salim Ahmed Ibrahim, told the council that the international community should exert concrete pressure to stop the flow of advanced military equipment and weapons to the RSF. Follow Topics: SUDAN UNREST UN UN RIGHTS CHIEF VOLKER TURK AL-OBEID RELATED 120 dead in latest Sudan cholera outbreak: WHO Amnesty says RSF committed ethnic cleansing in Sudan Latest Updates US says pulls some troops from Nigeria after anti-Daesh operation Two Turks arrested in Greece trucking 50 guns: police Saudi Arabia condemns bombing at Damascus cafe CPJ board votes to keep current journalist definition, easing Gaza deaths fears Mourners in Damascus bury cafe blast victims as officials promise justice Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Can foreign energy investment help power Syria’s recovery after years of war? MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control EN
