Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Middle East World Sport Body of late supreme leader Ali Khamenei arrives in Qom ahead of procession Previous Pause Next Home UN deems Israel’s detention of Gaza doctor ‘arbitrary’ as health fears mount UN deems Israel’s detention of Gaza doctor ‘arbitrary’ as health fears mount Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya is seen on a video call from prison during an Israeli Supreme Court hearing of an appeal by his lawyers to end his detention in Jerusalem on June 10, 2026. (Physicians for Human Rights Israel via AP) Short Url https://arab.news/492ht Updated 07 July 2026 06:42 REUTERS July 06, 2026 16:33 Follow Gazan doctor Hussam Abu Safiya has been held since December 2024 Last month, Israel’s Supreme Court rejected an appeal to release him GENEVA: A UN human rights body on Monday called Israel’s detention of Gazan doctor Hussam Abu Safiya arbitrary and urged his immediate release, as rights groups and his lawyer warned that his life was in imminent danger. In its finding, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention said that Israel’s actions contravened multiple articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. “The appropriate remedy would be to release Mr. Abu Safiya immediately and accord him an enforceable right ‌to compensation and other ‌reparations,” it said. The panel also raised broader concerns, saying ‌the ⁠case — one of several ⁠submitted to it — “may indicate a widespread or systematic practice of arbitrary detention in the country.” The Israel Prison Service and the Israeli diplomatic mission in Geneva did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Israel did not respond to the UN working group when approached about the case in July last year, it said. Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya, center, director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital, supervises the treatment of a Palestinian man who was injured in an Israeli strike on Nov. 21, 2024. (AFP file photo) MENA Rights Group, which filed the complaint, said the 52-year-old pediatrician and director of Gaza’s Kamal Adwan hospital has been held since December 2024. It said ⁠he has faced repeated solitary confinement, lengthy interrogations and beatings with batons ‌and electric shock sticks. Earlier on Monday, his lawyer ‌Nasser Odeh said via a prisoners’ group that his health was in grave danger and that ‌he had been subjected to daily abuse. Video footage of him from a Supreme Court ‌hearing last month showed him looking visibly thinner. “If Dr. Abu Safiya dies in that cell, it will be murder, and everyone who had the power to stop it — and did nothing — will be complicit,” said Steve Cutts, CEO of charity Medical Aid for Palestinians. The Israel Prison Service previously rejected allegations that Abu ‌Safiya and other doctors have been mistreated in prison. Last month, Israel’s Supreme Court rejected an appeal to release him. It based its ⁠decision on “confidential materials” under ⁠a law for so-called unlawful combatants which also allows detention for indefinitely renewable periods. The Israeli military has accused Abu Safiya of being a member of the Palestinian militant group Hamas. It has not provided evidence and Gaza’s health ministry and Hamas have denied the allegation. Abu Safiya is among at least 14 doctors from Gaza who have been detained in Israel without charge for more than a year. His case is emblematic of “Israel’s systematic targeting of Palestinian health care workers, which has contributed to the collapse of Gaza’s health care system…,” Tanya Boulakovski, research lead at MENA Rights Group, told Reuters. In 2023, Abu Safiya was among the doctors who refused to leave the dozens of newborn infants they were treating after the Israeli military ordered them to leave. The UN working group’s legal interpretations are non-binding but are sometimes cited as evidence in cases before international courts. Follow Topics: WAR IN GAZA UN DR. HUSSAM ABU SAFIYA RELATED SPECIAL ‘We want to know he’s safe’ — family awaits Israeli response on detained Gaza doctor after court order Israeli Supreme Court rejects appeal for release of Gaza doctor held without charge Latest Updates NATO allies seek to win over Trump after Iran ire Earth reaches aphelion, marking farthest point from Sun in annual orbit Body of late supreme leader Ali Khamenei arrives in Qom ahead of procession International Conference on Legal and Sharia Studies concludes with call for stronger, modern legislation Belgium beats US 4-1 to reach World Cup quarterfinals, taking advantage of defensive lapses Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
