Arab News Saturday . June 27, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Saudi Arabia Sport World Middle East World Cup opens US eyes to soccer’s global roar Saudi Arabia condemns Iranian drone attack on Bahrain Previous Pause Next Home Hezbollah rejects US-brokered Israel-Lebanon security deal as ‘surrender’ Hezbollah rejects US-brokered Israel-Lebanon security deal as ‘surrender’ A Hezbollah supporter stands next of a banner that shows portraits of Iran’s Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei, left, and Hezbollah leader Sheikh Naim Qassem. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/g25rw Updated 27 June 2026 17:16 REUTERS June 27, 2026 13:53 Follow Qassem ‌called it “null and void,” and accused ‌the Lebanese government of making unilateral ​concessions BEIRUT: Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem rejected a US-brokered security agreement between Lebanon and Israel on Saturday ​a day after it was signed, describing it as a surrender to Israel. In the latest example of ongoing hostilities despite repeated ceasefires and agreements, Israel launched a drone strike in Lebanon’s south. More than a million Lebanese have been driven from their homes by a conflict that has run in parallel with the wider Iran war. Hezbollah and ‌Iran say Washington ‌pledged to end hostilities in Lebanon ​as ‌part ⁠of ​its memorandum ⁠of understanding signed two weeks ago to end the wider war. The framework agreed on Friday provides for a phased Israeli withdrawal from some parts of southern Lebanon, alongside the deployment of the Lebanese army. But Israeli forces would be permitted to remain in an expanded security zone for the ⁠time being, pending further implementation. In a statement, Qassem ‌called it “null and void,” and accused ‌the Lebanese government of making unilateral ​concessions and undermining Lebanon’s sovereignty. He ‌criticized provisions linking Israel’s withdrawal to Hezbollah’s disarmament, saying they ‌effectively legitimized Israel’s military presence and crossed “all red lines.” The group would continue its armed resistance, he added: “We did not leave the battlefield in the most difficult circumstances, and we will not leave ‌it.” Lebanon’s state news agency said an Israeli drone struck Nabatieh Al-Fawqa on Saturday. The area ⁠is outside ⁠the security zone shown on a map published by Israel of the territory its troops will continue to control. The Israeli military told Reuters it had carried out the strike, using a drone because it had no troops in the immediate area. It said it targeted an individual who posed a threat to its forces, without giving further details or evidence. Qassem said the Iran-US memorandum of understanding reached earlier this month, which guarantees Lebanon’s territorial integrity, should serve ​as the basis for ​ending the conflict, rather than Friday’s Washington agreement. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH RELATED Israel deal is not peace treaty but ‘process to end hostilities’ — Lebanese official DEVELOPING VIDEO Israel and Lebanon sign framework agreement in Washington Latest Updates Israel deal is not peace treaty but ‘process to end hostilities’ — Lebanese official Hezbollah rejects US-brokered Israel-Lebanon security deal as ‘surrender’ World Cup opens US eyes to soccer’s global roar Saudi Arabia condemns Iranian drone attack on Bahrain Catholic bishops call for humane treatment of migrants during US-Mexico border Mass Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk MIDDLE EAST Could Israel’s Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties EN
