Arab News Friday . July 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East Saudi Arabia World Russia receives first Kazakhstan gasoline shipment, sources say Previous Pause Next Home Israeli strikes kill Palestinians attending Gaza funeral for earlier strike victim Israeli strikes kill Palestinians attending Gaza funeral for earlier strike victim Palestinian residents save their belongings from destroyed buildings following an Israeli airstrike last night, at al-Bureij refugee camp, central Gaza Strip, Thursday, July 16, 2026. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/wzaue Updated 17 July 2026 19:50 REUTERS July 17, 2026 19:46 Follow GAZA: An Israeli airstrike killed at least eight Palestinians and wounded 20 attending a funeral in Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip on Friday for a person killed by another Israeli strike on the area earlier in the day, Gaza health officials said. Those deaths, along with at least three Palestinians killed in separate Israeli airstrikes elsewhere in the enclave, brought Friday’s toll to at least 12, medics said. Hamas condemned the Nuseirat strike as a “brutal massacre” against mourners and urged mediators, as well as the United Nations, to act to halt Israeli attacks in Gaza. The Israeli military said it was checking a Reuters request for comment but did not immediately provide one. Israel orders evacuations despite ceasefire Residents in an area east of Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip said Israeli forces used drones to broadcast audio messages ordering them to leave their homes, forcing some families to flee for safety. The deaths add to a toll of more than 1,100 Palestinians, mostly civilians, killed by Israeli attacks since an October ceasefire between Israel and Hamas militants took effect, according to Gaza health officials. Hamas does not usually disclose its losses. The truce halted major fighting but has not stopped near-daily Israeli strikes. Israel says it is targeting militants. Four Israeli soldiers have been killed by militants in Gaza over the same period. Conflict monitor ACLED, a US-based research group that tracks political violence, said Israeli airstrikes against Hamas and other militants rose to more than 40 in June, the highest monthly total since the ceasefire. Other strikes hit people near the line dividing the two sides, killing and injuring civilians, including women and children, it said. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA ISRAEL PALESTINE GAZA HAMAS RELATED Doctors rally in France demanding release of detained Gaza hospital chief Escalating Israeli strikes kill five people in Gaza, medics say Latest Updates Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez to attend World Cup final against Argentina World Cup destiny: Messi bathed Yamal as a baby, now they face off for soccer’s top title Russia receives first Kazakhstan gasoline shipment, sources say Muslim World League chief opens Al-Rahman Mosque in New Zealand Houthis link educational support to loyalty and affiliation Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? EN
