Arab News Thursday . June 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Middle East Saudi Arabia Sport World Offbeat Israel in talks with US over continuing its Lebanon troop deployment, officials say Previous Pause Next Home Israel ‚Äòconducting stubborn negotiations‚Äô with US over continuing its Lebanon troop deployment, officials say Israel ‚Äòconducting stubborn negotiations‚Äô with US over continuing its Lebanon troop deployment, officials say UPDATE Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been berated by Donald Trump over Israel's actions in Lebanon. (Reuters/File) Short Url https://arab.news/zfa6v Updated 18 June 2026 12:06 REUTERS June 18, 2026 11:18 Follow Trump said on Wednesday that Netanyahu could use a ‚Äúsofter touch‚Äù in the fight against Hezbollah Netanyahu ‚ÅÝand Trump have clashed over Israel‚Äôs refusal to constrain its pursuit of Hezbollah JERUSALEM: Israel is holding negotiations with the US as it seeks to continue its deployment of ‚Äãtroops in southern Lebanon, two Israeli officials including a senior Israeli official close to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Reuters on Thursday. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive talks, made the comments a day after the US and ‚ÄåIran signed ‚Äåan interim pact that ‚Äãcalls ‚Äåfor ‚ÅÝparties ‚Äãto ensure ‚Äúthe territorial ‚ÅÝintegrity and sovereignty of Lebanon.‚Äù Israel expanded its invasion of southern Lebanon after the Lebanese militia Hezbollah opened fire at Israel on March 2 in support of its ally Iran. It has since staged a devastating ‚ÅÝair and ground campaign that it says ‚Äåaims at rooting ‚Äåout Hezbollah. Israel describes the territory ‚Äãit has seized ‚Äåin Lebanon, Gaza and Syria as ‚Äúbuffer zones‚Äù between ‚Äåit and its enemies, a core facet of Israel‚Äôs recent security policy. Netanyahu has rejected calls for Israel to withdraw from those territories. The senior ‚ÄåIsraeli official told Reuters that Israel was ‚Äúconducting stubborn negotiations‚Äù with Washington ‚ÅÝover continuing its ‚ÅÝdeployment of troops in southern Lebanon. The official said Israel would not back down on its positions, including keeping troops deployed in the area south of Lebanon‚Äôs Litani River. A second Israeli official told Reuters that the outcome of the talks would ultimately depend on whether US President Donald Trump ‚Äúdecides to force the issue‚Äù by threatening repercussions if Israel ‚Äãdoes not abide ‚Äãby the interim Iran pact‚Äôs terms. Netanyahu‚Äôs office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Trump said on Wednesday that Netanyahu could use a ‚Äúsofter touch‚Äù ‚Äãin the fight against Hezbollah militants in Lebanon, the US president‚Äôs latest public rebuke to his partner in the war on Iran. Netanyahu and Trump have repeatedly clashed over Israel‚Äôs refusal to constrain its pursuit of Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon, where a cessation of hostilities is a key Iranian demand under a limited ‚Äåinterim agreement ‚Äåwith the US ‚ÄúNetanyahu happens to ‚Äãbe ‚Äåa ‚ÅÝgood ‚Äãman, gets ‚ÅÝa little excited sometimes,‚Äù Trump told reporters on Wednesday at the close of a G7 summit in France. The Israeli leader helped convince Trump to go to war against Iran, according to US and Israeli officials, and joined in attacks launched on February 28. But Netanyahu ‚ÅÝhas insisted Israel is not bound ‚Äåby any US-Iran agreement in ‚Äåits fight against Hezbollah, though hostilities ‚Äãin Lebanon have abated ‚Äåsomewhat since Trump sharply criticized him earlier this week. ‚ÄúWe ‚Äåhave a little dispute over Lebanon. I say you can do a little softer touch, Bibi,‚Äù Trump said, referring to Netanyahu by his nickname. ‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt have to knock ‚Äådown a building every time somebody walks into it that‚Äôs from Hezbollah.‚Äù Trump added that ‚ÅÝhe agreed ‚ÅÝwith the description of Israel as being a ‚Äúvery small partner‚Äù of the United States but thanked Netanyahu for his role in the conflict against Iran, Israel‚Äôs arch-foe. He also insisted he had sent Netanyahu a copy of the ‚Äúmemorandum of understanding‚Äù the US reached with Iran on Sunday, pushing back against news reports that the administration had turned down an Israeli request. It paves the way for broader US-Iran peace ‚Äãtalks set to ‚Äãbegin in Switzerland on Friday. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE Trump says Netanyahu should be more responsible with Lebanon UPDATE Several Israeli strikes hit south Lebanon Latest Updates Saudi Arabia advances to 13th globally, 3rd in G20 in IMD competitiveness report NATO says it agrees to modernize nuclear capabilities Taiwan president says hopes for $14 bn US arms sale ‚Äòas soon as possible‚Äô Israel in talks with US over continuing its Lebanon troop deployment, officials say Bird flu kills 13,000 seal pups on remote Australian island Editor‚Äôs Choice MIDDLE EAST How Israel‚Äôs new ‚Äòsecurity belts‚Äô could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‚Äòwe are not leaving Gaza‚Äô despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit EN
