Arab News Tuesday . June 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Business & Economy Saudi Arabia Egypt records 33.2% YoY rise in remittances in first 10 months of FY2025/26 Previous Pause Next Home IEA says ‘unconditionally’ re-opening Hormuz vital to end energy crisis IEA says ‘unconditionally’ re-opening Hormuz vital to end energy crisis UPDATE Vessels at the Strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam, Oman, June 16, 2026. (REUTERS) Short Url https://arab.news/grzbj Updated 16 June 2026 14:15 AFP REUTERS June 16, 2026 11:02 Follow Several Iranian vessels sailing toward Iranian ports despite US blockade – Iranian state TV PARIS: The head of the International Energy Agency said Tuesday that “unconditionally” opening the Strait of Hormuz to Gulf tanker traffic was essential to ending the shock from soaring oil and gas prices to economies worldwide. “The single most important solution to this problem is the fully and unconditionally opening up of the state of Hormuz to shipping,” IEA chief Fatih Birol told a press conference. Iran had effectively halted tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz in retaliation for US and Israeli strikes launched in late February, choking off oil and gas traffic and sending crude prices skyrocketing. Three ​Iranian tankers and two vessels carrying essential ‌goods ‌are ​currently ‌sailing ⁠toward Iranian ​southern ports ⁠from the Indian Ocean, ⁠Iranian ‌state ‌TV said ​on Tuesday, ‌despite ‌a US military ‌advisory note saying on Monday ⁠that ⁠a blockade of Iranian ports remains in ​effect ​until Friday. The deal between Iran and the United States to end the Middle East war calls for the strait to be opened, but Iranian officials have said tolls or “service fees” could be imposed for ships passing through the crucial channel for Gulf oil and gas. Birol “warmly” welcomed the deal, calling it “great news” that “will give a comfort to the markets.” “The crisis has started almost four months now,” the IEA chief, who has previously compared the fallout to the great oil shocks of the 1970s, pointed out. The IEA has coordinated the release of hundreds of millions of barrels of oil from emergency stocks by its 32 member countries, and said in May that around 164 million barrels have already been drawn. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE G7 meetings to focus on Ukraine war and Trump’s tentative Iran deal Oil falls as markets weigh return of supply, US-Iran peace deal Latest Updates A month-old pony moves to a 4th-floor apartment in Croatia. Neighbors don’t mind. IEA says ‘unconditionally’ re-opening Hormuz vital to end energy crisis Trump says Russia ‘should make a deal’ with Ukraine Egypt records 33.2% YoY rise in remittances in first 10 months of FY2025/26 FIFA weighs Israel-Palestine opener for new U-15 tournament Editor’s Choice WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria EN
