Arab News Wednesday . July 08, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Business & Economy Saudi Arabia Middle East Israeli strike kills World Cup screening organizer in Gaza just before kickoff Previous Pause Next Home EU aviation agency tells operators to avoid Iran, Iraq and Lebanon airspaces until August 31 EU aviation agency tells operators to avoid Iran, Iraq and Lebanon airspaces until August 31 EASA says it withdrew previous bulletin asking airlines to be cautious when operating within the airspace of several Arab states. (AFP file photo) Short Url https://arab.news/mtvvt Updated 08 July 2026 15:17 REUTERS July 08, 2026 15:11 Follow EASA's latest advisory comes ​after Iran said it targeted US military sites ‌in Bahrain, Kuwait BENGALURU: The European Union Aviation Safety Agency said on Wednesday ​that airlines should not operate within the airspace of Iran, Iraq, and Lebanon, amid ongoing tensions and the potential for further military action, as the US and Iran exchanged fresh attacks. The EASA said its bulletin for the airspaces of ‌Iran, Iraq ‌and Lebanon was valid ​until ‌August ⁠31. The agency ​said it ⁠had withdrawn its previous bulletin that had also asked airlines to exercise caution when operating within the airspace of Bahrain, Kuwait, Israel, Jordan, Qatar, Oman, UAE and Saudi Arabia. It was not immediately clear whether ⁠EASA would issue a new advisory ‌for those nations. The ‌agency’s latest advisory comes ​after Iran’s Revolutionary Guards ‌said they targeted US military sites ‌in Bahrain and Kuwait on Wednesday. Those attacks followed a wave of US military strikes on Iran after tankers were hit in the Strait ‌of Hormuz. President Donald Trump had said on Monday that the US ⁠would either ⁠reach a deal with Iran or “finish the job,” renewing his threat of military action. EASA said the implementation of the US-Iran ceasefire remained fragile, and its advisory decision was based on “ongoing high level of tensions and the potential for further military action.” The European agency also added that should the existing truce break down, Iranian ​airspace was likely ​to be exposed to “imminent threats.” Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Trump says interim accord with Iran to end war is “over” UPDATE Oil jumps over 5% after Trump says deal with Iran ‘over’ Latest Updates Venus, Regulus pair to light up sky on Thursday Poll finds 2 in 5 Britons believe Muslims cannot integrate Saudi, global firms sign 3 hotel management deals Saudi reserve assets rise 8% to $495bn as foreign holdings increase Saudi Tomoh program supports over 3k fast-growing firms, helps 40 list on Nomu Editor’s Choice WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader EN
