Arab News Monday . June 29, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Lifestyle Business & Economy Middle East Sport Malaysia extends search for missing flight MH370 by one year Previous Pause Next Home Hezbollah-allied Lebanese parliament head says US-Israel-Lebanon deal ‘will not pass’ Hezbollah-allied Lebanese parliament head says US-Israel-Lebanon deal ‘will not pass’ Previous 0 seconds of 29 secondsVolume 0% Vehicles drive past a billboard that reads in Arabic "Lebanon first" (in white) after it was defaced with the words "Army, People, Resistance" and set on fire along Beirut's airport road near Tehran-backed Hezbollah's stronghold, amidst tensions following Lebanon's framework agreement with Israel on June 28, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/g3gu3 Updated 29 June 2026 12:03 REUTERS June 28, 2026 22:26 Follow Hezbollah says reserves right to ‘defend its homeland’ Berri says Iran-US talks are the key to Israeli withdrawal BEIRUT: Lebanon’s Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri, a key ally of Hezbollah, on Monday ​slammed a US-brokered agreement between Lebanon and Israel, warning it could lead to attempts to divide Lebanese and said it would not be implemented. In comments to Lebanon’s Al-Akhbar newspaper, Berri described Iran-US negotiations as the only realistic opportunity to secure Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon and that any attempt to separate Lebanon from the US-Iran track would prolong Israeli occupation. Israel has occupied a swathe of southern Lebanon in a war with Hezbollah that began on March 2, when the group opened fire at Israel in solidarity with Tehran after it came under US-Israeli attack. The Lebanon war has ‌been a central ‌part of diplomacy toward ending the wider US-Iran conflict. Tehran ​has ‌insisted ⁠on ​a Lebanon ceasefire ⁠as part of its interim deal with Washington, while the United States has sponsored separate talks between the Lebanese and Israeli governments, which Beirut has attended despite Hezbollah’s objections. Israel has praised the agreement, signed by the Lebanese and Israeli ambassadors to Washington on Friday, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying it allows Israeli forces to continue to occupy southern Lebanon if Hezbollah does not disarm. Hezbollah, which has demanded Beirut quit its face-to-face talks with the Israeli government, has rejected the deal as ⁠a surrender to Israel. BERRI DISMISSES LEBANON-ISRAEL AGREEMENT AS ‘DICTATES’ The agreement foresees the Lebanese ‌military taking control of territory pending the verified disarmament ‌of non-state groups — a reference to Hezbollah — saying this would ​enable the Israeli military “to progressively redeploy out of” ‌Lebanon. It foresees the Lebanese army gradually assuming responsibility in “pilot zones.” Berri, head of the Shiite Muslim ‌Amal Movement, described the agreement as “dictates.” Al-Akhbar quoted Berri as saying the most dangerous aspect of the agreement was not only its political content, but “the potential for it to incite internal divisions and draw the Lebanese into a confrontation among themselves.” The agreement “won’t be implemented,” Al-Akhbar cited him as saying. The Lebanese administration headed by the ‌Maronite Christian President Joseph Aoun and Prime Minister Nawaf Salam, a Sunni Muslim, called for face-to-face talks with Israel early in the war despite ⁠strong objections from ⁠Shiite Hezbollah, reflecting deep divisions over its decision to join the conflict in support of Iran. The Beirut government has been pursuing a policy aimed at securing Hezbollah’s disarmament since last year, after the group was badly weakened during a previous war with Israel in 2024. Aoun, in a phone call with US President Donald Trump on Saturday, said he hoped Washington would press Israel to withdraw from southern Lebanon. Israeli forces seized a self-declared security zone stretching into southern Lebanon during the war, citing the need to shield northern Israel from Hezbollah attacks. The Israeli military said it destroyed a 200-meter (656-ft)-long Hezbollah tunnel in the south overnight. It also said it had struck three Hezbollah command centers in southern Lebanon on Sunday in response to violations of a ceasefire ​by Hezbollah. Hezbollah, in a statement on Monday, ​said it has adhered to the ceasefire “until now,” and that it reserved the right “to defend its homeland and its people.” Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON HEZBOLLAH ISRAEL-LEBANON RELATED Trump presses Syria to take on Hezbollah, raising alarm in Lebanon and Israel Hezbollah rejects US-brokered Israel-Lebanon security deal as ‘surrender’ Latest Updates Australia to host Brazil double-header after World Cup Malaysia extends search for missing flight MH370 by one year Azerbaijan slams ally Israel’s recognition of Armenian genocide Amy Abdelnoor discusses debut novel ‘Ever Land’ ‘We expect greater expansion of investments with Saudi Arabia,’ Egypt’s irrigation minister says Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk EN
