Arab News Saturday . July 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Saudi Arabia Middle East Sport Boeing sees ‘new generation’ planes dominating in 2045 Previous Pause Next Home Iran’s Guards say two oil tankers explode after hitting mines in Hormuz Iran’s Guards say two oil tankers explode after hitting mines in Hormuz A vessel at the Strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam, Oman, on July 17, 2026. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/2kw2f Updated 18 July 2026 04:30 AFP July 18, 2026 00:48 Follow “Like most IRGC claims, this is false,” US military replies on X IRGC also claimed it had “stopped” four ships trying to transit the vital strait TEHRAN: Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Saturday that two oil tankers transiting through the Strait of Hormuz hit mines and exploded, a claim disputed by the US military. “An hour ago, two oil tankers, which were trying to pass through the minefield south of the Strait of Hormuz by deceptive American intelligence agencies, exploded and caught fire,” the Guards said in a statement published by state news agency IRNA, without identifying the tankers. “To protect their capital and, more importantly, their lives, the sailors should not be deceived and enter the minefield,” they said. US Central Command (CENTCOM) issued a brief denial, saying on X, “Like most IRGC claims, this is false.” The Guards said separately on Saturday that they had “stopped” four ships trying to transit the Strait of Hormuz. “In the past hours, four violating ships with the support of the terrorist US army were trying to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, and all four ships were stopped in place during a combined missile and drone operation,” the Guards said in a statement carried by the state broadcaster. Iran has again virtually closed the Strait of Hormuz for a week. It is seeking to control the vital waterway and has been warning tankers and cargo ships to only use channels close to its coastline, to the north of the strait, and not southern corridors the United States has been attempting to protect. The US, in response to Iran’s threats to shipping in the strait, reimposed a navy blockade against Iranian ports. It has also been carrying out nightly airstrikes on targets in Iran aimed at weakening Tehran’s abilities to monitor and threaten the strait. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN STRAIT OF HORMUZ IRGC US CENTRAL COMMAND (CENTCOM) RELATED Global energy security at risk if Strait of Hormuz does not open in weeks, IEA chief says New Delhi tells shipowners not to deploy Indian seafarers on Hormuz routes Latest Updates Iran’s Guards say two oil tankers explode after hitting mines in Hormuz Damascus court hears witnesses in trial of former grand mufti Syria says Daesh group plotted church, shrine attacks to inflame sectarian tensions Boeing sees ‘new generation’ planes dominating in 2045 Riyadh Air expands European network with new nonstop Madrid service Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development EN
