Arab News Friday . June 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Media World Sport Middle East Former refugees look to ignite Australia’s World Cup Previous Pause Next Home US military helping move 7 million barrels of oil per day out of Arabian Gulf, Wright says US military helping move 7 million barrels of oil per day out of Arabian Gulf, Wright says Roughly 7 million barrels a day of oil are getting ​out of the Arabian Gulf with US military help, Energy Secretary Chris Wright (pictured) said on Friday at an event in Houston. (Reuters/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/ztn54 Updated 12 June 2026 19:44 REUTERS June 12, 2026 19:42 Follow No Iranian crude is getting out of the Strait, Wright said at a Bloomberg Energy event HOUSTON: Roughly 7 million barrels a day of oil are getting ​out of the Arabian Gulf with US military help, Energy Secretary Chris Wright said on Friday at an event in Houston. That is about half of the flow of oil that has been stuck in the Strait of Hormuz since the US-Israeli war ‌with Iran ‌began, Wright said. “We have a ​military ‌effort ⁠that ​we’ve not ⁠talked a lot about, which started more recently to get cargoes out,” Wright said. No Iranian crude is getting out of the Strait, Wright said at a Bloomberg Energy event, adding that he expects to see the free ⁠flow of all products through the ‌Arabian Gulf if ‌a deal is reached. And if ​no deal is ‌reached, he said the US military will work ‌to restore the flow. The flow of 7 million bpd is a bigger number than the oil industry was expecting, said Dan Pickering, chief ‌investment officer at Pickering Energy Partners. Oil prices, currently in the $88 range, indicate ⁠that investors had ⁠assumed only about 3 million to 4 million barrels of oil were flowing through the Strait, Rebecca Babin, CIBC Private Wealth senior energy trader, said at the event. Wright said that some sanctions on Iran could be partially lifted if a deal is made. A US gasoline tax holiday over the summer was a possibility that could help ​reduce prices, Wright ​said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN US IRAN OIL RELATED Oil rises more than $1 as escalation in US-Iran strikes unnerve traders VIDEO Trump claims US military secretly helped 100m barrels of oil through Hormuz Latest Updates Iranian-American fans face uneasy World Cup as war rages Israeli entry ban on French reporter fuels press freedom concerns as Paris treads carefully Former refugees look to ignite Australia’s World Cup Coca-Cola Fan Zone brings cultures together at World Cup opening night in Riyadh Madinah real estate auction reached about SR989m in 2025 Editor’s Choice BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen MIDDLE EAST Analysis: How long can Iran’s regime fight on? EN
