Arab News Saturday . July 11, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Books Sport Corporate And Sponsored Content Middle East Palestinians in West Bank fly kites in defiance of settlers Previous Pause Next Home Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 A man who was injured following a reported Israeli strike on a tent according to medics, is carried by another to the trauma ward for treatment at Nasser Medical Complex in Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip on July 8, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/4ar2g Updated 11 July 2026 22:28 WAFA July 11, 2026 20:54 Follow The sources added that since the ceasefire started on October 11 last year, the death toll has reached 1,098, while 3,535 people have been injured GAZA: The death toll from the ongoing Israeli aggression on the Gaza Strip has risen to 73,221, with 173,643 people injured since Oct. 7, 2023, medical sources in the enclave said on Saturday. According to the sources, hospitals across Gaza received seven bodies over the past 24 hours, including one recovered from beneath the rubble, as well as 28 injured people. The sources added that since the ceasefire started on Oct. 11 last year, the death toll has reached 1,098, while 3,535 people have been injured. BACKGROUND Israel has been conducting military strikes on the Gaza Strip, where a population of more than 2 million faces hunger, disease and displacement. They also said that 800 bodies have been recovered during the same period. Medical sources said that a number of victims remain trapped beneath the rubble and in the streets, with ambulance and civil defense crews unable to reach them. Israel has been conducting military strikes on the territory, where a population of more than 2 million faces hunger, disease and displacement. It has said it will expand its area of control in Gaza to 70 percent of the enclave. Nikolay Mladenov, US President Donald Trump's appointed Board of Peace envoy to Gaza, has said both sides have violated the October agreement. The Board of Peace is planning a pilot humanitarian zone for Gazans as a way to kickstart the stalled peace plan, regardless of whether a deal is reached with Hamas on the peace plan's second phase, a board official said. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA PALESTINE GAZA USA RELATED Chickenpox cases surge past 18,000 in Gaza as disease outbreak spreads, UN says Gaza civil defense says Israeli attacks kill six Latest Updates Belgium coach Garcia’s tenure in doubt after Courtois substitution Zelensky: Ukraine’s diplomacy must get allies to carry out arms supply deals more quickly Palestinians in West Bank fly kites in defiance of settlers EU countries to discuss trade ban on Israeli settlements Noskova shakes off nerves to beat Muchova in Wimbledon final Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
