Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Middle East World Sport Iran declares Strait of Hormuz closed as ‘unauthorized’ vessel hit Previous Pause Next Home US launches new round of strikes on Iran after IRGC attacks civilian vessel in Strait of Hormuz US launches new round of strikes on Iran after IRGC attacks civilian vessel in Strait of Hormuz Short Url https://arab.news/mqn84 Updated 12 July 2026 04:19 AGENCIES July 12, 2026 03:00 Follow WASHINGTON: The US military said ​on Saturday it launched a new round of strikes against Iran after Islamic Revolutionary Guard ‌Corps ‌forces ​attacked ‌a Cyprus-flagged ⁠container ​ship M/V GFS Galaxy as it transited ⁠the Strait of Hormuz. “A civilian crew member is missing and ⁠the vessel is ‌unable to ‌continue ​the ‌journey due to ‌an onboard fire and significant engine room damage,” the US ‌Central Command said in a ⁠statement on ⁠X. The US Central Command said the strikes were carried out at the direction of President Donald Trump. Iran earlier said it has closed the Strait of Hormuz as it acknowledged striking a vessel using an “unauthorized route” in the strait. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said multiple vessels “disregarded our warnings and instructions to correct their course and proceed along the approved route.” One of them “was struck by a warning shot and brought to a stop.” Iran said that the strait would remain closed “until further notice” and said it would consider targeting “additional enemy bases in the region” if it faced more attacks. In its post on X, the US Central Command said Iran was provided another opportunity to demonstrate adherence to the Memorandum of Understanding “after being held accountable for earlier attacks on commercial vessels but has again failed.” “In response, the United States is imposing a heavy cost by continuing to degrade Iran’s ability to attack civilian mariners and commercial ships freely transiting the strait,” CENTCOM said. Following the US military’s announcement, Iranian media started reporting explosions in the country's coastal areas near the Strait of Hormuz. “Three explosions heard in Bandar Abbas and two in Sirik,” state TV reported, while Mehr News Agency said explosions were heard in Qeshm island. Other media outlets also reported multiple explosions in Bushehr province, Deir, Asalwiya and the city of Jask. As the US announced its own new round of strikes, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth posted on social media that Iran has to pay for its intransigence. “Iran made a poor choice. Now they pay,” Hegseth posted on social media. Attacks followed more diplomatic talks about the strait The latest flurry of shots from both sides followed Iran and Oman’s foreign ministers meeting on Saturday to discuss the strait that lies between them, after days of Iranian attacks on ships and US retaliation that dealt a blow to the interim deal to end the war. Iran’s new supreme leader, still unseen since the war began, also vowed in his first statement since the funeral of his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei that Iranians would avenge his killing in the war’s opening strikes on Feb. 28. Such revenge “is the will of our nation and must certainly be carried out,” Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei said in a statement carried on state television, hours after President Donald Trump threatened more missile attacks. Oman said it and Iran agreed to keep talking about the Strait of Hormuz “at the technical and political levels.” Iran accuses Washington of violating ceasefire deal Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said before the new round of strikes that he met with his counterpart in Oman to discuss “appropriate mechanisms for ensuring the safe passage of ships.” The world for decades has considered the strait an international waterway. Iran has insisted that the strait now remain under its control and that it be allowed to charge ships moving through it, a stance it took after the war began. The US urges mariners to transit on a southern route through Oman’s territorial waters. About a fifth of all traded oil and natural gas passed through the strait before the war began. Iran’s grip on it during the war led to a global energy crisis, though oil prices have sharply dropped since wartime highs of $120 a barrel. Iran’s top diplomat also accused the US of violating the interim deal by ending waivers allowing Iran to sell crude oil on the open market in US dollars. Washington ended them in response to the attacks on ships in the strait. “Reality check: There can only be mutual compliance,” Araghchi wrote on social media. • With AP & Reuters Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN STRAIT OF HORMUZ RELATED Iran declares Strait of Hormuz closed as ‘unauthorized’ vessel hit Trump suggests a standing order to attack Iran if it assassinates him, but Vance would make the call Latest Updates US launches new round of strikes on Iran after IRGC attacks civilian vessel in Strait of Hormuz Bellingham scores twice to lift England past Haaland and Norway 2-1 and into World Cup semifinals Iran declares Strait of Hormuz closed as ‘unauthorized’ vessel hit Saudi leadership extends National Day greetings to Mongolia Thousands of Albanians march against Trump-linked resort Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
