Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Books What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Bright Years’ Previous Pause Next Home Israeli bulldozers continue razing agricultural land in Jenin-area village Israeli bulldozers continue razing agricultural land in Jenin-area village People watch Israeli excavators demolish a Palestinian home reportedly built without a permit in the village of Al-Rifayia, south of Hebron in the occupied West Bank, on July 9, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/rwkrh Updated 12 July 2026 21:38 WAFA July 12, 2026 21:01 Follow Israeli forces bulldozed agricultural land between the villages of Deir Qaddis and Kharbatha Bani Harith, west of Ramallah, on Sunday, according to local sources JENIN: Israeli bulldozers continued on Sunday to raze agricultural land in the village of Zububa, west of Jenin, in the occupied West Bank. Local sources said Israeli bulldozers resumed work in the morning, clearing agricultural areas and uprooting olive trees, causing extensive damage to residents’ property and threatening the livelihoods of dozens of families. The sources added that Israeli forces have destroyed more than 1,500 olive trees belonging to the village since the beginning of the month, following a previous notice ordering the uprooting of olive trees across 128 dunums of land in Zububa. The ongoing land razing has caused significant losses to Palestinian farmers who depend on olive cultivation as a primary source of income. Israeli forces bulldozed agricultural land between the villages of Deir Qaddis and Kharbatha Bani Harith, west of Ramallah, on Sunday, according to local sources. The sources said Israeli military bulldozers leveled hundreds of dunums of land between the two villages, most of it planted with olive trees, as part of work to connect the area to the Israeli colony of Nili. Israeli settlers attacked Palestinian farmers working on their land in the village of Tayasir, east of Tubas, on Sunday, according to local sources. The sources said armed Israeli colonists assaulted farmers on the outskirts of the village and obstructed them from working their land. They added that the outskirts of Tayasir have witnessed repeated attacks by Israeli settlers targeting residents and their property, alongside attempts to establish a new Israeli settlement outpost in the area. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA PALESTINE GAZA USA RELATED Israeli attacks in Gaza kill six people, including a girl, medics say Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 Latest Updates Archaeologists uncover 3,000-year-old tomb near Egypt’s Luxor UN chief calls on US and Iran to halt new outbreak of fighting What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Bright Years’ Iraq will not allow attacks against Saudi Arabia, GCC countries from its territory: FM Kuwait says three border posts, offshore oil platform attacked Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
