Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Lifestyle World Middle East Media Saudi economy sees V-shaped recovery after conflict shock, says Gulf International Bank economist Previous Pause Next Home Israeli gunfire kills two people in south Lebanon, civil defense says Israeli gunfire kills two people in south Lebanon, civil defense says A worker uses a skid loader to clear the rubble from the roads of the southern village of Maifadoun, following a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah, Lebanon, Monday, June 22, 2026. (AP Photo/Mohammed Zaatari) Short Url https://arab.news/5wqkp Updated 23 June 2026 14:07 ARAB NEWS June 23, 2026 09:37 Follow Israeli soldiers opened fire at a group of people near a bulldozer clearing a road in the Al-Deir neighborhood of Nabatieh Al-Fawqa in southern Lebanon BEIRUT/JERUSALEM: Israeli gunfire killed two people in southern Lebanon on Tuesday, Lebanon‚Äôs Civil Defense and state media said, the first reported fatalities resulting from Israeli fire in Lebanon ‚Äãin three days. A ceasefire between Iran-backed Hezbollah and Israeli forces in southern Lebanon has largely held since Sunday, the longest lull yet in the war that spilled over from the conflict between the United States and Iran. Hezbollah decried what it called a ‚Äúblatant violation‚Äù of the ceasefire in Lebanon on Tuesday, after state media there reported two people killed by Israeli gunfire in the country‚Äôs south. ‚ÄúThe Islamic Resistance warns that what the enemy has committed constitutes a blatant violation of the ceasefire, which the Resistance has adhered to up to this point,‚Äù the group said in a statement. Israeli soldiers opened fire at a group of people near a bulldozer clearing a road in the Al-Deir neighborhood of Nabatieh Al-Fawqa in southern Lebanon, Lebanon‚Äôs state news agency NNA reported. The Israeli military said it ‚Äústruck armed terrorists who posed an immediate threat‚Äù to soldiers in the Ali Al-Taher ‚Äåridge area of the ‚Äåsouth, within an area of south Lebanon where ‚ÄãIsraeli forces ‚Äåhave ‚ÅÝdeclared a ‚Äúsecurity ‚Äãzone.‚Äù It ‚ÅÝwasn‚Äôt immediately clear if this was the same incident. Iran insisted Israel cease fire in Lebanon as part of an interim agreement with the United States signed last week. Asked about the latest incident, Iran‚Äôs ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Ali Bahreini, told reporters that any violation of the memorandum of understanding in Lebanon would create challenges for peace talks. ‚ÄúLebanon is an unquestionable part of the agreement, and whatever happens in Lebanon affects ‚ÅÝthe whole process, and it is the United States which ‚Äåshould use all its leverage against Israel to make ‚Äåit to stop attacks against Lebanon,‚Äù he said. A ‚Äãjoint statement issued on Monday at ‚Äåthe end of US-Iranian talks mediated by Pakistan and Qatar in Switzerland said the parties ‚Äåhad agreed to create ‚Äúa de-confliction cell‚Äù to ensure adherence to the termination of hostilities in Lebanon. Israeli forces remain deployed deep inside southern Lebanon, having invaded during their offensive against Hezbollah. The latest round of hostilities began on March 2, when Hezbollah opened fire at Israel in support ‚Äåof Tehran, two days into the US-Israeli war on Iran. Israeli attacks in Lebanon have killed more than 4,100 people, including 773 ‚ÅÝwomen, children and ‚ÅÝhealth care workers, according to the Lebanese health ministry. The toll does not say how many combatants are among the dead. Israeli attacks have forced some 1.2 million people from their homes in Lebanon, according to Lebanese authorities. Israel‚Äôs death toll from this round of hostilities with Hezbollah includes at least 32 soldiers and four Israeli civilians. At Iran‚Äôs insistence, the interim deal signed with the United States last week requires Washington, Tehran, and their allies to declare an immediate and permanent termination of military operations on all fronts, including Lebanon. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Monday that troops had full freedom of action to thwart any Hezbollah direct or emerging threat against them or Israeli ‚Äãcitizens, and would remain in Lebanon for ‚Äúas ‚Äãlong as is necessary.‚Äù (with agencies) Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED SPECIAL GRAPHIC What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah‚Äôs influence ‚Äî the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? Killings and harm to Palestinian children central to Israel‚Äôs genocide in Gaza, UN inquiry finds Latest Updates Kaouther Ben Hania joins Venice Film Festival jury Arab American launches project to document history of Arab settlement in Chicago 33 AI startups graduate from SME incubator program Iran‚Äôs president lands in Pakistan as US-Iran teams work to finalize a war-ending deal Saudi economy sees V-shaped recovery after conflict shock, says Gulf International Bank economist Editor‚Äôs Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah‚Äôs influence ‚Äî the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‚Äòtrapped‚Äô between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
