Arab News Friday . June 19, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Sport Middle East World British PM renews vow to fight any leadership challenge Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon’s Aoun tells Rubio ‘comprehensive ceasefire’ essential ahead of talks next week Lebanon’s Aoun tells Rubio ‘comprehensive ceasefire’ essential ahead of talks next week Secretary of State Marco Rubio leads peace talks between Lebanon and Israel at the State Department, April 14, 2026. (Reuters/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/64hc4 Updated 19 June 2026 22:18 AFP June 19, 2026 22:03 Follow State Department announced resumption of negotiations in Washington from June 23 to 25 Rubio reaffirmed Washington’s support for Lebanon’s efforts to extend state authority across all its territory BEIRUT: Lebanese President Joseph Aoun told US Secretary of State Marco Rubio in a call Friday that a comprehensive ceasefire must be secured in order for talks with Israel to progress. The State Department, meanwhile, announced the resumption of negotiations in Washington from June 23 to 25. These discussions will provide an opportunity to “make progress toward a lasting peace,” department spokesman Tommy Pigott said in a statement. Rubio reaffirmed Washington’s support for Lebanon’s efforts to extend state authority across all its territory, according to a readout of the call. Rubio also expressed support for Lebanon’s legitimate institutions, “including security and military ones, foremost among them the Lebanese Armed Forces,” Aoun’s office said. The Lebanese presidency said Aoun thanked Rubio for US support but stressed “the need for Israeli attacks on Lebanese territory to cease through the achievement of a comprehensive ceasefire, which Lebanon considers a fundamental basis for advancing the Lebanese-US-Israeli negotiations scheduled to take place in Washington next week.” Rubio, according to the statement, insisted on the importance of Lebanon carrying through on its efforts to disarm the Hezbollah armed group, which is fighting Israel in the south of the country. “They discussed the next round of negotiations, scheduled for June 23 to 25 in Washington, where the two sovereign governments will make progress toward a lasting peace,” Pigott said. “Secretary Rubio reiterated the need to disarm Hezbollah and to re-establish control over all Lebanese territory,” he said. Israel’s ambassador to the United States, Yechiel Leiter, insisted in a social media post that Israel was committed to an immediate ceasefire in Lebanon, but only “if Hezbollah honors the agreement and ceases its hostilities.” Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON US ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH RELATED UPDATE Lebanon’s Aoun says Israel talks independent of US-Iran deal UPDATE VIDEO Israeli minister says ‘all of Lebanon must burn’ after four soldiers killed Latest Updates Lebanon’s Aoun tells Rubio ‘comprehensive ceasefire’ essential ahead of talks next week In call with Pakistan PM, Saudi crown prince welcomes US-Iran deal British PM renews vow to fight any leadership challenge Kane hails World Cup 'Wonderwall' singalong as England highlight UN aid chief demands ‘dignity’ for Gaza Strip’s population Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit EN
