Arab News Sunday . July 05, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Saudi Arabia World In south Lebanon, Israel army chief vows to act ‘decisively’ against Hezbollah Previous Pause Next Home British military says cargo ship reports attack in Red Sea British military says cargo ship reports attack in Red Sea Fishermen's boats are scattered in a bay on the shore of the Red Sea in Yemen's Khokha district, south of Hodeida on October 20, 2024. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/ntydm Updated 05 July 2026 20:08 AP July 05, 2026 12:04 Follow UKMTO said the ship reported being “under attack by unknown armed assailants” 30 nautical miles (55 kilometers) southwest of Hodeida CAIRO: A cargo ship came under attack Sunday off the coast of Yemen in the Red Sea, the British military said, the latest maritime attack off the conflict-torn Arab country. The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations center reported the attack off Hodeida city, which is under control of the Iranian-backed Houthis. The UKMTO said the ship reported being “under attack by unknown armed assailants” 30 nautical miles (55 kilometers) southwest of Hodeida. A skiff approached the bulk carrier and opened fire, forcing security guards to return fire, before sailing back to a larger ship about 2 nautical miles (3.7 kilometers) away with its automatic identification system switched off, the UKMTO said. The cargo ship and crew were reported safe, the British military said, adding that authorities were investigating. No group immediately claimed the attack. The Houthis have threatened to begin attacking ships again. A Houthi spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The militia previously fired drones and missiles at ships that pass territory they control near the Bab Al-Mandab Strait at the southern end of the Red Sea. Their attacks during the Gaza war forced shipping companies to reroute vessels around the southern tip of Africa instead of through the Suez Canal at the northern end of the Red Sea. Somali pirates also have been active further away in the Gulf of Aden recently. Suspected pirates attacked a vessel 76 nautical miles (140 kilometers) south of the port town of Balhaf in southeastern Yemen on July 1. Four armed men on a small craft caused minor damage to the ship’s bridge, according to the UKMTO. Follow Topics: YEMEN RED SEA UK MARITIME TRADE OPERATIONS (UKMTO) RELATED Attack by Yemen’s Houthis kills 16 government troops: medics Saudi-backed Masam project destroys 724 landmines, explosive remnants in Yemen Latest Updates Bahraini court holds hearing for 19 people accused of supporting IRCG Police arrest retired priest, 84, over Palestine Action support Saudi-backed teacher training begins in Yemen In south Lebanon, Israel army chief vows to act ‘decisively’ against Hezbollah Saudis trade coffee chats for creative workshops Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News WORLD America at 250: Why the US still wrestles with its ideals at home and its role abroad MIDDLE EAST Can foreign energy investment help power Syria’s recovery after years of war? EN
