Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Business & Economy Lifestyle Middle East Imaan Hammam stuns for Jacquemus Previous Pause Next Home Iraq, GCC discuss stronger ties as Baghdad pledges closer Gulf cooperation Iraq, GCC discuss stronger ties as Baghdad pledges closer Gulf cooperation raqi Prime Minister Ali Falih Al-Zaidi met with GCC officials. (X/@IraqiPMO) Short Url https://arab.news/v9df9 Updated 01 July 2026 16:49 ARAB NEWS July 01, 2026 16:46 Follow Al-Zaidi said his government was committed to deepening ties with GCC countries LONDON: Iraqi Prime Minister Ali Falih Al-Zaidi on Wednesday met Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Secretary-General Jassem Mohammed Albudaiwi, as both sides discussed strengthening relations and expanding cooperation between Iraq and Gulf states. Albudaiwi conveyed congratulations from Gulf leaders to Al-Zaidi following his appointment as prime minister and the formation of Iraq’s new government. During the meeting, Al-Zaidi said his government was committed to deepening ties with GCC countries, describing them as Iraq’s “Arab depth” and stressing the importance of building relations with regional and international partners. He said Iraq was entering a new phase focused on strengthening state institutions, developing the economy, upholding the rule of law and reinforcing national sovereignty. Albudaiwi praised what he described as reform efforts by the Iraqi government, including steps to strengthen the economy, tackle corruption and ensure that arms remain under state control. He also expressed the GCC’s readiness to expand partnerships with Iraq across various fields. Albudaiwi also met with Judge Faiq Zidan, President of Iraq’s Supreme Judicial Council, during which they reviewed ways to enhance cooperation and discussed regional and international developments. Both sides stressed the importance of joint action to strengthen relations and support security and stability in the region. Follow Topics: IRAQ GCC RELATED Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control GCC secretary general receives Iraqi ambassador to Saudi Arabia Latest Updates Ukraine reports new locust outbreak in southern Kherson region US signs agreement to build permanent embassy in Jerusalem Saudi Arabia retains top global ICT ranking for 2nd consecutive year Imaan Hammam stuns for Jacquemus Trump debuts new Air Force One on trip to Theodore Roosevelt museum dedication Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency EN
