Arab News Sunday . July 05, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Middle East Sport Jordan foils 2 narcotic smuggling attempts along eastern front Previous Pause Next Home Palestinian Prisoners’ Society voices concern over detained Gaza hospital director’s condition Palestinian Prisoners’ Society voices concern over detained Gaza hospital director’s condition Previous 1 / 2 Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya was seized by Israeli forces 18 months ago. (WAFA) 2 / 2 A woman holds a sign that reads "Free Dr. Hussam Abu Safiya, Free Gaza" during a protest in front of the Shin Bet offices, calling for his release, in Tel Aviv, Israel, on Jan. 1, 2025. (AP Photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/y27rg Updated 05 July 2026 21:21 AP WAFA July 05, 2026 12:13 Follow Abu Safiya was physically and psychologically abused, says Physicians for Human Rights The organization held Israeli authorities fully responsible for the lives of Abu Safiya, other detained medical personnel and Palestinian prisoners TEL AVIV: The lawyer for a prominent Palestinian doctor who was seized by Israeli forces 18 months ago said his client has been abused in captivity and is in critical condition, according to the human rights group representing him. Hussam Abu Safiya, who served as director of the Kamal Adwan Hospital in northern Gaza, became the face of health workers struggling to treat patients throughout the Israel-Hamas war. He led the facility through an 85-day siege by the Israeli military, releasing videos in which he pleaded for help before he was arrested in December 2024. He has not been charged. The Israeli military said Abu Safiya, 53, was being investigated on suspicion of cooperating with or working for Hamas. Staff and international aid groups that worked with him deny the claims. Physicians for Human Rights Israel and Abu Safiya’s lawyer, Nasser Odeh, said Abu Safiya appeared extremely weak and struggled to sit upright during a visit on July 2. Odeh said he had recent head injuries around his eyes, ears and neck and experienced difficulty breathing. Odeh and Physicians for Human Rights Israel said they have petitioned for Abu Safiya’s transfer to another facility. Abu Safiya faced physical and psychological abuse and was kept in solitary confinement for extended periods, Odeh said following an appearance before Israel’s Supreme Court last month challenging his continued detainment without charge. Abu Safiya appeared briefly via video during that hearing, looking pale and gaunt, with lash-like marks on both arms. Israel’s Prison Service called the allegations “false and entirely without factual basis.” The prison service declined to discuss the case directly, citing privacy concerns, but said all prisoners and detainees are held in accordance with the law and receive medical care based on Ministry of Health guidelines. “The Israel Prison Service rejects allegations of abuse, torture, starvation, or denial of medical treatment,” the prison service said. Israel has faced severe criticism over its treatment of Palestinian prisoners and detainees since the start of its war with Hamas in October 2023. Human rights organizations and the UN have alleged systematic patterns of abuse. The number of Palestinians in Israeli detention surged after the start of the war, and thousands remain in detention. The Associated Press has previously reported on the dire conditions in prisons. The Palestinian Prisoners’ Society expressed concern over Abu Safiya’s detention conditions and his reported health. The society said the continued detention of medical personnel from the Gaza Strip, including Abu Safiya, forms part of a campaign targeting health care workers. The organization held Israeli authorities fully responsible for the lives of Abu Safiya, other detained medical personnel, and Palestinian prisoners. It called on international human rights organizations, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and the UN to intervene urgently to ensure their protection and secure their release. It also said that states providing political and military support to Israel bear responsibility for the continuation of serious violations of international law. The society said that available information regarding Abu Safiya indicated he had been transferred to a prison section known as “Rakefet,” which Palestinian human rights organizations describe as a high-security section. The statement added that condemnations alone have lost their practical effect in the face of what it described as systematic destruction targeting Palestinian prisoners. The organization cited remarks it said Abu Safiya made to his lawyer: “This is the last time you will see me ... they brought me here to kill me. I do not see myself leaving here alive. This is the end.” Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA PALESTINE GAZA USA RELATED PHOTOS Israel hasn’t said who its soldiers abused. Two Gaza mothers think it’s their son Palestinians face uncertain future as Gaza marks 1,000 days of war Latest Updates ‘Tough’ Leclerc delivers Ferrari’s 250th win with victory in British GP PA warns of Israeli plan to annex 142 archeological sites in Hebron Jordan foils 2 narcotic smuggling attempts along eastern front Bahraini court holds hearing for 19 people accused of supporting IRCG Police arrest retired priest, 84, over Palestine Action support Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News WORLD America at 250: Why the US still wrestles with its ideals at home and its role abroad MIDDLE EAST Can foreign energy investment help power Syria’s recovery after years of war? EN
