Arab News Monday . July 06, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport World Duterte ally arrested over plunder charge ahead of impeachment trial Previous Pause Next Home Israel government says it will defy Supreme Court ruling on media regulator Israel government says it will defy Supreme Court ruling on media regulator This is the first time Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government has flouted a Supreme Court ruling, although it has clashed with the judiciary in the past. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/ynvfb Updated 06 July 2026 07:53 REUTERS July 05, 2026 17:59 Follow This is the first time Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government has flouted a Supreme Court ruling JERUSALEM: Israeli cabinet members on Sunday voted to defy a Supreme Court decision regarding the country’s broadcast regulator, raising concerns of a constitutional crisis. This is the first time Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government has flouted a Supreme Court ruling, although it has clashed with the judiciary in the past. After elections in 2022, it sought to limit the court’s powers, drawing global criticism and mass protests in Israel. The judicial reform was shelved after the October 7, 2023, Hamas attacks, although some parts have since been resurrected. Israeli law requires the Second Authority for Television and Radio to have a minimum number of members to make decisions. The government argues that because the council no longer meets that requirement, it ‌has no authority ‌to approve appointments or take other actions. However, on June 17, the court ordered ‌the ⁠council to continue ⁠anyway. The cabinet on Sunday voted unanimously in favor of rejecting the court’s ruling, Communications Minister Shlomo Karhi and Justice Minister Yariv Levin said in a statement. The decision was swiftly condemned by opposition leaders vying to replace Netanyahu’s coalition in an upcoming election. Israeli opposition leader Yair Lapid said “the government had turned criminal.” “This is the most serious constitutional crisis in Israel’s history. It’s the destruction of the foundations of our democracy,” he said in a statement. Karhi and Levin — a key proponent of judicial changes — proposed that the government not recognize any council decisions or actions until the legal threshold for membership was ⁠met. In its vote, the cabinet said the court had no authority to trample on ‌the law and it will “act through all legal means at its ‌disposal to nullify the decision.” “A ruling that contradicts the law will not be recognized and decisions made under it are ‌null and void,” it said. Karhi criticized the court, saying judges are not parliament. He said any decisions ‌the media regulator makes in the future would be “worthless.” Levin added that when parliament enacts a law, the court must abide by it. Israeli President Isaac Herzog said that statements of disobedience to Supreme Court rulings harm the core of unity in the nation. “I have already made it clear, and I will repeat it again and again — disobedience to a court ruling is a red ‌line that must not be crossed under any circumstances,” he said. Cabinet Secretary Yossi Fuchs downplayed the ministers’ rhetoric, saying there was no call for disobeying the ⁠court’s decision but rather a “sharp criticism” ⁠of a ruling that contradicts the government’s law. “The government declared that it will use all legal tools at its disposal to overturn the decision in the future. How do legal tools become disobedience to a ruling?” Fuchs wrote in an X post. Fears of constitutional crisis Netanyahu has not commented on the cabinet’s decision, but his rivals did, while legal experts expressed worries of a constitutional crisis. “Not adhering to court rulings brings anarchy in the streets and the disintegration of our country,” said Naftali Bennett, who was prime minister from 2021 to 2022. Similarly, Gadi Eisenkot, who is leading in polls to replace Netanyahu, said Israel’s government was “raising a hand against Israeli democracy” and that Netanyahu was “dividing Israel.” The cabinet’s decision could affect the possible approval of the sale of Israel’s Channel 13, one of the country’s major commercial television networks and a critic of Netanyahu, to a group of high-tech entrepreneurs. It may also affect whether right-wing, pro-Netanyahu, Channel 14 should continue to be classified as a “small channel” – a designation that grants it regulatory benefits and exemptions. A date for new elections has not yet been set but one is expected in September or October. Follow Topics: ISRAEL RELATED Is Israel silencing witnesses? Rising journalist deaths raise accountability concerns VIDEO Israel extends foreign media ban law until end of 2027 Latest Updates Israel government says it will defy Supreme Court ruling on media regulator Death toll from Russian strikes on Kyiv region rises to 10: authorities Duterte ally arrested over plunder charge ahead of impeachment trial Syrian security forces foil assassination cell in Hama province Verdict expected in Austrian trial of Syrian ex-general accused of torture Editor’s Choice WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News WORLD America at 250: Why the US still wrestles with its ideals at home and its role abroad EN
