Arab News Thursday . June 11, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle-East Sport World Lifestyle Thousands of Albanians protest Trump-linked resort project Previous Pause Next Home UN reports record levels of settler violence in the West Bank UN reports record levels of settler violence in the West Bank A man attempts to extinguish a fire in a field in the Palestinian town of Huwara in the occupied West Bank after a reported arson attack by Israeli settlers, June 6, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/y8jya Updated 11 June 2026 23:23 AFP June 11, 2026 18:59 Follow The number of Israeli attacks in West Bank this year has surpassed 1,000 More than 2,200 Palestinians have been displaced this year due to settler violence Violence by Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank has reached record levels, with an average of six attacks daily causing casualties or damage, the UN said Thursday. The number of such attacks this year has surpassed 1,000, said Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for the UN chief, citing the UN’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). “Just last week, settler attacks resulted in the injury of more than 30 Palestinians and widespread damage to property, central infrastructure as well as livelihoods,” Dujarric said. “The current pace of settler attacks causing casualties or property damage, with an average of six incidents per day, is higher than any year on record,” he said. More than 2,200 Palestinians have been displaced this year due to settler violence or access restrictions, while hundreds more have been displaced due to home demolitions by Israeli authorities, he said. More than a half million Israelis live in the West Bank — excluding East Jerusalem, which has been annexed by Israel — in settlements deemed illegal by the United Nations under international law. Three million Palestinians also live there. Israel has occupied the West Bank since 1967. Violence has escalated in the West Bank during and since the Gaza war, which was triggered by an unprecedented attack on Israel by the Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas on October 7, 2023. Follow Topics: OCCUPIED WEST BANK ISRAELI SETTLERS PALESTINIANS RELATED Israeli settlers impeded firefighting near Christian West Bank village, Palestinians say Israel slams ‘disgraceful measures’ from 6 foreign govts against West Bank settler entities Latest Updates Local cafes host FIFA World Cup match screenings Saudi Arabia unveils new wildlife destinations to boost eco-tourism and conservation UN reports record levels of settler violence in the West Bank Palestinian killed in Gaza City as Israeli warplanes bomb house Thousands of Albanians protest Trump-linked resort project Editor’s Choice WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen MIDDLE-EAST Analysis: How long can Iran’s regime fight on? MIDDLE-EAST How decades of instability, dependence on Iranian gas hollowed out Iraq’s power sector EN
