Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Middle East World How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development Previous Pause Next Home Israel says killed three Hezbollah members in south Lebanon Israel says killed three Hezbollah members in south Lebanon Smoke rises following Israeli controlled-explosions in the village of Deir Siryan as seen from Nabatieh in southern Lebanon on July 14, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/ptyca Updated 15 July 2026 23:27 AFP July 15, 2026 23:10 Follow IDF soldiers identified three armed Hezbollah terrorists in the area of Beit Yahoun, located within the Security Zone in southern Lebanon JERUSALEM: The Israeli military said it killed three Hezbollah members in south Lebanon on Wednesday, shortly after US-sponsored Israel-Lebanon negotiations were held in Rome. “Earlier today (Wednesday), IDF soldiers identified three armed Hezbollah terrorists in the area of Beit Yahoun, located within the Security Zone in southern Lebanon,” the military said in a statement. “Following the identification, the IDF eliminated the three terrorists, who were carrying combat equipment, in order to remove the threat posed to IDF soldiers operating nearby,” it added. Israeli forces remain deployed in what the military describes as a security zone extending roughly 10 kilometers (six miles) into Lebanese territory. Israel and Lebanon on Wednesday concluded two days of talks aimed at reaching a permanent peace deal in Rome, with Washington describing the discussions as “productive and positive.” The US-brokered negotiations took place in the Italian capital over the framework agreement sealed last month after five rounds of talks in Washington, with Lebanese negotiators hoping for progress on an Israeli withdrawal from southern Lebanon. The deal seeks an end to the state of war between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, disarmament of the Iran-backed militant group, the deployment of Lebanese troops in the south and for Israeli forces to steadily withdraw from the country, starting with two “pilot zones.” Hezbollah pulled Lebanon into the Middle East war when it launched strikes on Israel on March 2 in support of its backer Iran. Despite a ceasefire, Israel still launches occasional strikes in southern Lebanon and carries out detonations in villages it occupies near the border. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH RELATED In occupied zone of Lebanon, Israeli military veterans see shadow of past wars Lebanon detains man close to Hezbollah for allegedly spying for Israel: judicial official Latest Updates ICE should keep making traffic stops despite recent shootings, Trump says Twin attacks by militants kill 3 police officers, wound 20 in restive northwest Pakistan How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development Book Review: ‘Refik Anadol’ Oman sends medical supplies to Jordanian hospitals in Gaza Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
