Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Sport Middle East World US slaps new sanctions on Cuban companies key to island’s crumbling economy Previous Pause Next Home Moroccan contingent arrives in Israel to join international Gaza force Moroccan contingent arrives in Israel to join international Gaza force Morocco's security forces stand in formation at the Central Bureau of Judicial Investigations (BCIJ) headquarters in Sale, Morocco. (EPA file photo) Short Url https://arab.news/vwyt6 Updated 24 June 2026 00:21 AFP June 24, 2026 00:14 Follow At least 1,027 Palestinians have been killed since the ceasefire began, according to the Hamas?run health ministry in Gaza, whose figures are considered reliable by the UN Israel now says it controls at least 70 percent of the Gaza Strip, compared with just over half following its pullback on the first day of the truce JERUSALEM: Officers from the Moroccan military, whose deployment was announced in February, have arrived in Israel to join a nascent international force for Gaza, US President Donald Trump’s Board of Peace said Tuesday. An official from the board separately told AFP on condition of anonymity that the contingent arrived on June 18 at the headquarters of the International Stabilization Force (ISF) in southern Israel. The contingent is expected to contribute to the development of the force’s overall structure and provide expertise in several areas, including policing, the official said. He confirmed the presence of four Moroccan officers but did not specify whether the contingent included additional personnel. “Their arrival strengthens the international effort to support the people of Gaza,” the Board of Peace said on X. In February, Morocco committed to deploying police officers and military personnel to the Gaza Strip, becoming the first Arab country to do so publicly. In mid-January, Washington announced the launch of the second phase of Trump’s plan for Gaza aimed at bringing a definitive end to the war triggered by Hamas’s October 7, 2023 attack on Israel. In practice, however, little tangible progress has been achieved. The Trump plan, endorsed by the United Nations Security Council, led to the establishment of a ceasefire that took effect in October. Its second phase provides for a gradual Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, the disarmament of Hamas, and the deployment of the ISF, a project that has been the subject of repeated announcements and discussions but has yet to materialize. In late February, Hamas said it was open to the presence of such a force in the Gaza Strip, provided it did not interfere in the territory’s internal affairs. Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007. Israel now says it controls at least 70 percent of the Gaza Strip, compared with just over half following its pullback on the first day of the truce. Israel and Hamas accuse each other almost daily of violating the ceasefire amid stalled efforts toward a lasting end to the war. At least 1,027 Palestinians have been killed since the ceasefire began, according to the Hamas?run health ministry in Gaza, whose figures are considered reliable by the UN. The Israeli military says it has lost five of its soldiers during the same period. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA PALESTINE GAZA USA RELATED Killings and harm to Palestinian children central to Israel’s genocide in Gaza, UN inquiry finds PHOTOS Teenage girl on the way to a high school in Gaza killed in Israeli strike, relatives say Latest Updates Bank chief says Iran may buy US food, but not obliged to France coach Didier Deschamps to miss Norway match after mother’s passing US slaps new sanctions on Cuban companies key to island’s crumbling economy Spain’s Oyarzabal shrugs off soreness, hopes Yamal causes more chaos Tunisia upholds eight-year jail term for anti-racism activist: lawyer Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
