Arab News Monday . June 22, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Middle East World Mining, manufacturing drive 5.1% rise in Saudi industrial output Previous Pause Next Home Leaders of European powers to meet for Ukraine talks Leaders of European powers to meet for Ukraine talks President of the European Council Antonio Costa rings a bell to signal the start of a round table meeting of EU leaders and Ukraine, attended by Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky during the EU Summit at the EU headquarters in Brussels, Belgium. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/5fu48 Updated 22 June 2026 12:06 AFP June 22, 2026 08:49 Follow The government said Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni would attend the meeting with her British, French, German and Polish counterparts ROME: The leaders of Europe’s top military powers will meet Wednesday in Berlin, Italy said on Monday, as Europe aims to play a bigger role in trying to end the Ukraine war. The government said Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni would attend the meeting with her British, French, German and Polish counterparts. The announcement came just before British Prime Minister Keir Starmer said he would resign but remain in office until a new leader is chosen, meaning he could still attend the meeting. The E5 group was formed in 2024 following increasing calls for European rearmament and to improve coordination to support Ukraine against the Russian invasion. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz had said the meeting would take place this week without specifying a date. At last week’s G7 summit attended by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, leaders agreed to increase supplies of air defense equipment to Ukraine and boost sanctions on Russia. The G7 leaders also agreed to grant licenses for Ukraine-based companies to produce long-range missiles and air defense systems, a diplomatic source said. But Zelensky has called for Europe to do more as US efforts to end the fighting have faded. A European Union official said EU chief Antonio Costa’s office had made “brief contacts at diplomatic level” with Moscow aimed at opening communication channels. But some EU states have been wary about reaching out to Kremlin, with diplomats saying several leaders pushed backed against Costa’s efforts at last week’s EU summit in Brussels. Follow Topics: UKRAINE EU RELATED Moscow shoots down nearly 60 drones; Russian attacks kill five in Ukraine IAEA says Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant loses off-site power for 20th time Latest Updates IHG to operate 6 Luxury & Lifestyle brands in KSA by 2028, says top official Japan-related vessels stranded in the Gulf falls to 37 Gigi, Bella Hadid celebrate their Palestinian father with heartfelt messages After Iran-US talks, Swiss eye ‘immediate resumption’ of technical discussions Mining, manufacturing drive 5.1% rise in Saudi industrial output Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? EN
