Arab News Thursday . July 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Business & Economy Media Israeli jails a ‘graveyard,’ says freed Palestinian journalist Previous Pause Next Home US ambassador to Lebanon foresees Israeli withdrawal US ambassador to Lebanon foresees Israeli withdrawal Lebanese President Joseph Aoun sits with US ambassador to Lebanon Michel Issa. (Leb presidency X account) Short Url https://arab.news/y9t7f Updated 09 July 2026 12:15 ARAB NEWS July 09, 2026 12:11 Follow President Aoun stressed the importance of reinforcing the ceasefire in southern Lebanon and increasing pressure on Israel to stop its military operations DUBAI: Lebanon’s President Joseph Aoun met with US Ambassador to Beirut Michel Issa to discuss his upcoming official visit to the United States on the invitation of US President Donald Trump, as well as the current situation in Lebanon and the wider region. During the meeting, President Aoun stressed the importance of reinforcing the ceasefire in southern Lebanon and increasing pressure on Israel to stop its military operations and comply with the framework agreement announced following the Lebanese-American-Israeli negotiations held in Washington. He also called for an end to the hostilities by Israeli forces in several occupied towns and villages. Following the meeting, Ambassador Issa said President Aoun’s visit to Washington was particularly significant under the current circumstances and reflects the level of attention President Trump is giving to Lebanon, as well as his efforts to promote security and stability in the country and alleviate the suffering of its people. Asked about the planned meeting in Rome on July 14–15, Ambassador Issa explained that the decision to hold the talks in the Italian capital was made solely for technical reasons related to facilitating travel for ambassadors and delegation members. He noted that the Rome meeting will focus on the organizational and implementation aspects of the framework agreement, particularly the formation of specialized working groups responsible for carrying out the arrangements agreed upon in Washington. These teams may include legal or technical experts depending on the issues involved. Issa said the Rome discussions were a continuation of the understandings reached in Washington and added that additional meetings would take place in Rome or other locations to monitor implementation according to agreed stages. On the timeline for launching work in the pilot areas identified during the Washington negotiations, Ambassador Issa said preparations were underway to put the agreement into effect. He noted that a US military delegation is expected in Beirut in the coming days to coordinate and establish implementation mechanisms on the ground. He emphasized the need to prevent any security vacuum following the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the designated areas, adding that the implementation timetable will be determined based on the results of those coordination meetings. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL US RELATED Lebanon to attend Rome talks only if Israel withdraws from 2 ‘pilot’ zones: diplomatic source Lebanon approves release of singer-turned-militant: judicial official Latest Updates Rahm Emanuel warns that Israel has become a ‘territorial pariah’ in a blistering speech US ambassador to Lebanon foresees Israeli withdrawal Dubai’s economy grows 2.4% in Q1 Israeli jails a ‘graveyard,’ says freed Palestinian journalist 600 dead in DR Congo Ebola outbreak Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
