Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Saudi Arabia Middle East Argentina smelt ‘blood in water’ in England win: Scaloni Previous Pause Next Home Mediator Pakistan says encouraging US, Iran to resume talks Mediator Pakistan says encouraging US, Iran to resume talks Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 27 secondsVolume 0% Smoke rises from an explosion at an unknown location, during what US Central Command says are strikes on Iran, in this screen grab taken from a handout video released on July 15, 2026. (US Central Command via Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/rkygc Updated 16 July 2026 13:01 AFP July 16, 2026 13:00 Follow The United States has this week been striking Iran, drawing retaliatory Iranian attacks on US interest in the Gulf ISLAMABAD: Pakistan said on Thursday it would encourage the United States and Iran to stop violence and resume talks under a memorandum of understanding (MoU) it helped mediate last month. “While the implementation of the MoU is facing challenges, Pakistan will continue to encourage all sides to end violence and resume technical-level talks in accordance with the MoU,” Tahir Andrabi, Pakistan’s foreign office spokesman, told reporters in Islamabad. “We express the hope for an early normalization of the situation in Strait of Hormuz and underscore the importance of ensuring the continued safety, security and freedom of maritime navigation,” he added. The United States has this week been striking Iran, drawing retaliatory Iranian attacks on US interest in the Gulf as they battle over the strategic Hormuz shipping route. That sent global oil prices soaring and led to concerns of spikes in inflation even in nations far from the conflict. The key oil and gas artery, which Iran insists it controls, is central to the rekindled fighting that has entered its sixth day despite a preliminary deal in June aiming to end the war. “Pakistan recognizes the urgent need to address the impact of the current situation on global energy supplies and other economic commodities including trade and food security,” Andrabi said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US PAKISTAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO US expands attacks deeper into Iran as Tehran retaliates against Jordan, Bahrain and Kuwait VIDEO Hegseth announces new policy to test US troops for low testosterone Latest Updates Saudi producer prices jump 7.5% in May on manufacturing gains: GASTAT UK urges FIFA to investigate Argentina over Falklands banner at World Cup Vance says some in Israeli government sought to sway US on Iran deal Argentina smelt ‘blood in water’ in England win: Scaloni Mediator Pakistan says encouraging US, Iran to resume talks Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
