Arab News Tuesday . July 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Lifestyle Football World Art & Culture Saudi Arabia Egypt, Cabo Verde and Africa’s rise could strengthen Infantino’s case for 64-team World Cup Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting This photograph taken from the southern Lebanese city of Nabatieh shows smoke as it rises from the site of an Israeli-controlled explosion in the village of Kfar Tibnit, with the Beaufort citadel seen in the distance, on July 13, 2026. The sixth round of negotiations between Lebanon and Israel are to begin on July 14 in Rome, a Lebanese official told AFP on July 13. The two countries, which have no formal relations, began direct talks in April after Tehran-backed Hezbollah drew Lebanon into the Middle East war by attacking Israel in support of Iran the month prior. (Photo by Abbas FAKIH / AFP) / Short Url https://arab.news/r3htb Updated 14 July 2026 12:00 AFP July 14, 2026 08:14 Follow Lebanon and Israel are holding new negotiations under US auspices in Rome on Tuesday, against the backdrop of a regional escalation between Washington and Tehran BEIRUT: Lebanon and Israel are holding new negotiations under US auspices in Rome on Tuesday, against the backdrop of a regional escalation between Washington and Tehran. The two countries, officially at war for decades, reached a framework agreement on June 26, after five rounds of negotiations in Washington, aimed at ending the war between Israel and Iran-backed Hezbollah and paving the way for peace. But Hezbollah rejects the agreement, which calls for the group’s disarmament and whose implementation is set to begin with Israeli withdrawal from two “pilot zones” in southern Lebanon. The Lebanese presidency announced on Monday that its delegation to Rome had been instructed “to demand the immediate start of Israeli forces’ withdrawal from the two pilot zones before any further discussion.” According to a Lebanese diplomatic source familiar with the content of the talks, “the Lebanese army is ready to gradually take control of the localities from which the Israeli army would withdraw.” “Israel is willing to withdraw gradually,” analyst Orna Mizrahi of the Institute for National Security Studies (INSS) in Tel Aviv told AFP’s Jerusalem bureau, but on the condition “that there will be no presence of Hezbollah in the areas that Israel is withdrawing from.” She added that Israel also seeks to ensure “that the Lebanese army will have the ability... to keep it as a neutralized zone and a neutralized place that Hezbollah cannot come in again.” A US military delegation began discussions with the Lebanese army in Beirut on Saturday on the process for Israeli withdrawal from one of these “pilot zones.” - Limited prospects - The framework agreement was concluded after a fragile ceasefire came into effect in the war between Hezbollah and Israel. The Israeli army has nonetheless continued limited strikes in the south and has been carrying out demolitions in villages it occupies, according to official Lebanese media. Israel’s strikes and ground invasion have killed more than 4,300 people since the war started in early March, according to Lebanese authorities. “The chances of a breakthrough in Rome are quite limited,” Karim Bitar, a lecturer at Sciences Po Paris, told AFP. “What we might see instead is a kind of opportunity to show that the process is still in place... that there are negotiations continuing despite the opposition and the obstacles that are beginning to emerge,” he continued. Tehran had demanded the ceasefire in Lebanon in order to conclude a memorandum of understanding with Washington on June 17. But the region has seen a renewed escalation in recent days, with the US carrying out a third consecutive night of strikes against Iran ahead of the planned reimposition on Tuesday of its naval blockade of Iranian ports. Iran wants to establish a link between negotiations over the regional war and Lebanon, “but we have the wish to disconnect it,” the INSS’s Mizrahi said. She added that Tehran’s priorities today are the Strait of Hormuz and the nuclear file. “The Iranians are using Lebanon as an excuse. They will always use it as an excuse.” Hezbollah drew Lebanon into the regional war on March 2 by launching missiles as Israel in support of Iran. Bitar, for his part, said that the risk of major fighting returning to Lebanon as a result of the regional escalation “is, of course, not negligible.” “But I think that Iran today will think twice before asking Hezbollah to launch new strikes against Israel,” he said. Tehran “wants to maintain Hezbollah as a long-term deterrent tool and does not want to use it immediately to open a new front,” he said. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED SPECIAL Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? SPECIAL What to know about the Lebanon-Israel talks set to start in Rome Latest Updates US launches attacks on Iran as Tehran retaliates against UAE tankers in Strait of Hormuz and Bahrain Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting Heavy rain collapses roof and kills 11 people in northwest Pakistan Egypt, Cabo Verde and Africa’s rise could strengthen Infantino’s case for 64-team World Cup Messi takes on England for a place in the World Cup final Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria EN
