Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Lifestyle Business & Economy Middle East Artist Solimar Miller pays tribute to UAE’s natural heritage on construction hoardings Previous Pause Next Home Israel, Lebanon discuss US-backed proposal for transfer of some southern territory to Lebanese army Israel, Lebanon discuss US-backed proposal for transfer of some southern territory to Lebanese army UPDATE Above, a displaced family with their belongings, return to their village following a ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah in the southern port city of Sidon, Lebanonon June 23, 2026. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/jc54v Updated 24 June 2026 14:26 ARAB NEWS REUTERS June 24, 2026 11:43 Follow Lebanese ‌troops involved ‌would undergo US training and vetting to ‌ensure they are not linked to ⁠Hezbollah Lebanese President Joseph Aoun confirms that determination of the model areas remains under discussion JERUSALEM/BEIRUT: Talks between Israel and Lebanon include discussion of a US-backed proposal for Israeli forces to hand over some of ​the territory they have invaded during the war with Hezbollah to the Lebanese military, according to Israeli and Lebanese officials. The Israeli officials said the Lebanese troops involved would undergo US training and vetting to ensure they are not linked to Iran-backed Hezbollah, while Israel would maintain a military presence in a buffer zone along the ‌border. The proposed “pilot” ‌project is being discussed in ​the latest ‌round ⁠of talks ​between Lebanese ⁠and Israeli officials, which got underway in Washington on Tuesday. Lebanese President Joseph Aoun confirmed that determination of the model areas remains under discussion “pending approval from the Israeli side.” “Work is underway to consolidate the ceasefire in the south, to be followed by the withdrawal of Israeli forces, the deployment of the Lebanese army, the return of the residents, the release of prisoners, and the start of the reconstruction process,” the Lebanese Presidency posted on social media. Aoun added that talks in Washington were separate from what emerged from last week’s meetings between the United States and Iran in Switzerland. Prime Minister Nawaf Salam meanwhilee said the negotiations with Israel were the least costly option for Lebanon. “This is the shortest path toward ending the occupation and enabling our people in the South to return to their towns and villages, especially when all efforts are united under the authority of the state,” he said on Wednesday. While Salam acknowledged a proposal to establish a deconfliction cell aimed at halting military operations and maintaining the ceasefire in the country, he noted that “we are not restraining weapons in order to please Israel. This is an independent Lebanese matter that has been agreed upon, and we have been delayed for a long time in implementing it.” He insisted what the Lebanese government wanted from the negotiations: a complete Israeli withdrawal. “We also demand the release of the prisoners and the resolution of the remaining disputed points along the border,” Salam said. Rejected by Hezbollah, this diplomatic track has been overshadowed as Tehran has made Lebanon a focal point of its negotiations with the US. Asked about the Israeli officials’ comments, a senior Lebanese security official said discussions were ongoing in Washington ⁠and that Wednesday would see specific military-to-military discussions, ‌including on the pilot zones. The ‌Lebanese official said the discussions ​would focus on a timeline ‌for withdrawal and that any plan would emerge only after ‌the final day of talks on Thursday. The official did not respond to a request for comment on the Israeli officials’ account of US vetting of Lebanese troops. The latest war between ‌Hezbollah and Israel erupted when the group opened fire at Israel in solidarity with ⁠Tehran in ⁠the early days of the US-Israeli war on Iran. A ceasefire has largely held since Sunday, even as Israeli forces have remained deployed deep inside southern Lebanon, where they have seized a self-declared security zone, saying they need this to shield northern Israel from a Hezbollah attack. The interim agreement signed by Iran and the US last week requires both countries and their allies to declare an immediate and permanent end of military operations on all fronts, including ​Lebanon, and to ensure ​Lebanon’s “territorial integrity and sovereignty.” Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED Hezbollah chief demands full timetabled Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon Lebanon president rejects Israeli occupation, foreign interference as Washington talks begin Latest Updates UAE launches first-ever Sovereign Retail T-Sukuk, with citizens getting direct access Three industrial companies planning to list on the Saudi stock market Saudi Arabia’s Acwa explores desalination, green hydrogen investments in Morocco Artist Solimar Miller pays tribute to UAE’s natural heritage on construction hoardings Russia says nuclear weapons the ‘only’ guarantee against global war Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
