Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Books Saudi Arabia Middle East World What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Bright Years’ Previous Pause Next Home US conducts strikes on Iran missile systems around Strait of Hormuz: Axios US conducts strikes on Iran missile systems around Strait of Hormuz: Axios Previous 0 seconds of 38 secondsVolume 0% More than 10 projectiles struck Iran’s Qeshm Island in the strategic Strait of Hormuz on Sunday. (File/AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/maks9 Updated 12 July 2026 21:17 AFP July 12, 2026 13:26 Follow “We hit them very hard last night,” Trump told CNN by telephone in an interview centering mainly on the death of Senator Lindsey Graham TEHRAN: The US carried out several ‌strikes ‌on Iranian ​missile ‌and ⁠air ​defense systems ⁠and targeted small speed boats ⁠of ‌the ‌IRGC ​at several ‌locations ‌around the Strait ‌of Hormuz, Axios reported on ⁠Sunday, ⁠citing a senior US official. Iranian state media said more than 10 projectiles struck Iran’s Qeshm Island in the strait on Sunday, as hostilities resumed between Tehran and Washington. “Between 10 to 11 enemy projectiles have struck Qeshm Island since Sunday afternoon,” Hossein Amir Teymouri, governor of Qeshm township, told the IRNA state news agency, adding that “all of the targets were military” and that there had been no casualties. Earlier on Sunday, President Donald Trump said the United States hit Iran hard overnight in response to its latest attacks on shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. “We hit them very hard last night,” Trump told CNN by telephone in an interview. Trump said the United States and Iran had been close to “a deal” on Saturday. “They were giving up everything, and then all of a sudden two hours after that they hit a ship with a drone. These people, there is something wrong with them,” he said. He also said the Strait ‌of Hormuz ‌is ​open ‌to ⁠commercial traffic, ​though the ⁠US and Iran continue to ⁠trade attacks ‌that have ‌raised ​concerns ‌over ‌safety on one of the world’s ‌most important oil shipping routes. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN TRUMP STRAIT OF HORMUZ RELATED Iran adviser says Hormuz ‘more important’ than nuclear bombs VIDEO Iran attacks Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Jordan and UAE after fresh US strikes over Hormuz Latest Updates Archaeologists uncover 3,000-year-old tomb near Egypt’s Luxor UN chief calls on US and Iran to halt new outbreak of fighting What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Bright Years’ Iraq will not allow attacks against Saudi Arabia, GCC countries from its territory: FM Kuwait says three border posts, offshore oil platform attacked Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
