Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport 100,000 killed in Myanmar post-coup conflict: monitor Previous Pause Next Home Iran prioritizes diplomacy with US but remains ready for war: negotiator Iran prioritizes diplomacy with US but remains ready for war: negotiator Previous 0 seconds of 36 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Iran’s Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf. (AP file photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/r3mvf Updated 01 July 2026 09:25 AGENCIES June 30, 2026 22:48 Follow Iran’s chief negotiator Mohammad Qalibaf insists that Iran ​has ‌sovereignty over ‌the Strait of Hormuz TEHRAN: Iran’s chief negotiator Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf on Tuesday said that Iran was prioritising diplomacy with the United States, but remained ready for war. “We are pursuing dialogue, but if the dialogue is not implemented, we are also prepared for war and will respond accordingly,” Ghalibaf said in an interview on state television, as Iranian and US delegations were due to hold separate discussions in Doha. Ghalibaf said current meetings held by Iran ​are aimed at fulfilling the commitments of the memorandum of understanding and that Iran would not enter further negotiations until conditions ‌of the ‌MoU ​signed ‌between Iran ⁠and ​the United ⁠States are met. He added that Iran ​has ‌sovereignty over ‌the Strait of Hormuz along with Oman and it will ‌never compromise on its rights in ⁠the ⁠waterway. Passing through the strait is only toll free for a 60-day period as written in the MoU, Ghalibaf said. Ghalibaf said Iran was unable to export any oil during the US blockade on its ports, noting that exports have since surged. “From the day the blockade was lifted until today, we have exported more than 40 million barrels of oil,” he said in an interview on state television. “By contrast, during the previous 50 to nearly 60 days, we were genuinely unable to export even a single barrel of oil.” * with Reuters and AFP Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Uncertainty over Qatar diplomacy clouds prospects for US-Iran deal Iran prepares for late supreme leader’s funeral Latest Updates LeBron hits free agency: James not returning to Lakers, plans to play 24th season elsewhere Indian sailors fear returning to Gulf after Middle East war Erdogan seeks to bolster Turkiye’s clout at NATO summit 100,000 killed in Myanmar post-coup conflict: monitor US deports first migrant to Pacific nation Palau Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency EN
