Arab News Monday . June 29, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Lifestyle Business & Economy Australia to host Brazil double-header after World Cup Previous Pause Next Home Israeli strike targeting a militant kills 3, including a child, in Gaza Israeli strike targeting a militant kills 3, including a child, in Gaza Smoke rises from an earlier Israeli airstrike in Deir Al-Balah, central Gaza Strip on June 27, 2026. (AP) Short Url https://arab.news/ntvyk Updated 29 June 2026 12:35 AP June 29, 2026 09:22 Follow Health authorities in the coastal enclave said the strike hit a neighborhood in Deir Al-Balah DEIR AL-BALAH, Gaza Strip: An Israeli airstrike killed at least three Palestinians, including a child, in the Gaza Strip on Monday, after hitting a tent sheltering displaced people that Israel said housed a militant. Health authorities in the coastal enclave said the strike hit a neighborhood in Deir Al-Balah, one of the least damaged towns in central Gaza. Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital said the fatalities were two men and an 8-year-old while a third man was wounded. Israel’s military identified the target as Zaher Abu Salem, who it said was a member of Islamic Jihad and was involved in the Oct. 7, 2023, attack on Israel that triggered the war. While the heaviest fighting has subsided since a ceasefire took hold in October, Israeli forces have carried out repeated airstrikes, killing 1,045 Palestinians, according to health officials in Gaza. Israel has announced a series of strikes targeting militants, including three over the weekend. The ministry, which is part of the Hamas-led government, maintains detailed casualty records that are seen as generally reliable by UN agencies and independent experts. But it does not give a breakdown of civilians and militants. Militants have carried out shooting attacks on troops, and Israel says its strikes are in response to that and other violations. Five Israeli soldiers have been killed since the ceasefire. The Oct. 7 attack by militants on Israel killed some 1,200 people and saw 251 taken hostage. Israel’s retaliatory offensive in Gaza has killed more than 73,058 Palestinians, including those killed since the ceasefire, Gaza’s Health Ministry said. Follow Topics: WAR IN GAZA GAZA ISRAEL RELATED PHOTOS 2 Palestinians killed by Israeli drone strike in northern Gaza Israeli strike kills teenage girl and brother in southern Gaza Latest Updates Israeli strike targeting a militant kills 3, including a child, in Gaza ‘Best case scenario’: Former Egyptian captains happy with team’s path in knockout stages Middle East sovereign investors prioritizing energy security amid global uncertainty Australia to host Brazil double-header after World Cup Malaysia extends search for missing flight MH370 by one year Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk EN
