Arab News Sunday . June 28, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Football Offbeat Lifestyle World Middle East Sport France records around 1,000 excess deaths in heatwave: health agency Previous Pause Next Home Kuwait, Bahrain condemn latest Iranian attacks on their territories Kuwait, Bahrain condemn latest Iranian attacks on their territories Cars drive past a billboard that reads, "Bahrain is Safe... Top US diplomat Marco Rubio was in Bahrain on June 25, after promising Gulf allies that Washington would protect their interests as it seeks to hammer out a final settlement to end the war with Iran. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/c8ghb Updated 28 June 2026 11:34 ARAB NEWS June 28, 2026 09:45 Follow DUBAI: Kuwait and Bahrain have strongly condemned the latest Iranian attacks targeting their territories, describing the incidents as serious violations of their sovereignty and threats to regional security. In a statement issued on Sunday, Kuwait’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed the country’s “condemnation and strongest denunciation of the repeated heinous Iranian aggressions against the State of Kuwait,” saying the latest attack occurred at dawn and constituted “a flagrant violation of its sovereignty, a direct threat to its security and stability, and the safety of its citizens and residents.” The ministry added that the attacks represent “a clear breach of the rules of international law and the United Nations Charter,” warning that continued aggression undermines ongoing regional and international efforts to de-escalate tensions. Bahrain also condemned the latest attacks, saying Iran had once again targeted the kingdom with ballistic missiles and drones in “a dangerous escalation that reveals Tehran’s actions are neither isolated nor incidental, but rather a deliberate policy and systematic pattern of repeated aggression against the Kingdom’s sovereignty and the security of its citizens and residents.” It reaffirmed its rejection of any actions that violate state sovereignty, threaten regional security, or escalate tensions, while calling for respect for international law and renewed diplomatic efforts to preserve peace and stability across the Gulf. The Muslim World League strongly condemned on Saturday the Iranian aggression targeting Bahrain with drones. According to the Saudi Press Agency, the Secretary-General of the League and Chairman of the Council of Muslim Scholars, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulkarim Al-Issa, denounced the criminal Iranian attacks on Bahrain, saying it violated all religious values, international and humanitarian laws and norms, and undermined efforts to restore security and stability. Egypt strongly condemned the attacks targeting Bahrain and Kuwait using Iranian drones, describing them as a violation of their sovereignty, a threat to their security and stability, and an unacceptable escalation that undermines efforts to de-escalate regional tensions. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN Latest Updates Baniyas maintain lead on Day 2 of the Khaled bin Mohamed bin Zayed Jiu-Jitsu Championship Saudi Arabia expands China transport ties at Shanghai logistics exhibition ‘High-strung’ camels race in Australian outback Lebanon state media reports Israeli strike on south France records around 1,000 excess deaths in heatwave: health agency Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk MIDDLE EAST Could Israel’s Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? EN
