Arab News Sunday . June 28, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Offbeat World Israel military says soldier killed in south Lebanon fighting Previous Pause Next Home Iran FM warns any challenge to Hormuz routes will ‘increase tensions’ Iran FM warns any challenge to Hormuz routes will ‘increase tensions’ Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi (L) and Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein hold a joint press conference following a meeting in Baghdad on July 28, 2026. (Photo by AHMAD AL-RUBAYE / AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/vqxtd Updated 28 June 2026 13:22 AFP June 28, 2026 10:17 Follow Iran’s top diplomat warned Sunday that any attempt to bypass the Strait of Hormuz routes agreed with the United States would “increase tensions” in the Middle East BAGHDAD: Iran’s top diplomat warned Sunday that any attempt to bypass the Strait of Hormuz routes agreed with the United States would “increase tensions” in the Middle East, as the countries traded attacks and accusations of violating a fragile ceasefire in the region. During a visit to Iraqi capital Baghdad, Abbas Araghchi also called for the establishment of a security framework with Gulf countries, with Tehran and Washington accusing each other of violating the fragile truce that was meant to end the Middle East war. “Any attempt to adopt new or separate arrangements compared to what is underway by the Islamic Republic of Iran, will only lead to more complicated situations and delays in the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, and will increase the tensions, as we witnessed in the past two nights,” Araghchi told a press conference. Vessels have continued to use a non-Iranian-approved passage in the strategic waterway, tracking platforms showed Friday. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) said a day earlier that Oman and the International Maritime Organization (IMO) announced the new corridor without consulting Tehran, and warned vessels against using it. Araghchi’s warning came after the US military said it carried out new strikes Saturday on multiple targets in Iran, in response to a fresh attack on a ship transiting the Strait of Hormuz. Tehran responded with launching strikes against US bases in the Gulf. The recent clashes have tested the negotiating process meant to end a war launched by the United States and Israel against Iran on February 28. Araghchi called on all parties to “adhere to the memorandum of understanding and not to allow this MoU to deviate from its course.” Iran’s top diplomat said that “we should reach a new framework that includes all countries in the region and without the presence or interference of any country from outside the region.” He welcomed Iraq’s call to hold a meeting between the Gulf States, Iran and Iraq, which was drawn into the Middle East war from the beginning. Iraq is expected to hold on July 8 funeral processions for Iran’s late supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed during attacks by the US and Israel on the first day of the war. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Pakistan pushes for dialogue and diplomacy as US-Iran exchange attacks UPDATE Saudi Arabia leads Gulf, Arab condemnation of newest Iranian attacks Latest Updates Trump presses Syria to take on Hezbollah, raising alarm in Lebanon and Israel Saudi Arabia leads Gulf, Arab condemnation of newest Iranian attacks Israel military says soldier killed in south Lebanon fighting From rubble to music: Gaza’s Oud repairman Sinner begins Wimbledon defense, Sabalenka seeks first title Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk MIDDLE EAST Could Israel’s Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? EN
