Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Lifestyle Middle East Saudi Arabia’s Royal Commission for Makkah draws 17.5 million visitors to historical sites Iran’s Guards say struck US military bases in Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait Previous Pause Next Home Fire breaks out at a pub in Bangkok, killing at least 27 people Fire breaks out at a pub in Bangkok, killing at least 27 people Previous 0 seconds of 40 secondsVolume 0% Members of emergency personnel transfer the body of a deceased person at the site of a deadly fire at a pub in Bangkok, Thailand, July 13, 2026. (Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/bwvwb Updated 13 July 2026 10:18 AP July 13, 2026 10:15 Follow A huge fire broke out at a Bangkok pub, killing at least 27 people BANGKOK: A huge fire engulfed a pub in Bangkok early on Monday morning, killing at least 27 people before firefighters brought the blaze under control, officials said. Footage shared online by first responders shows a huge blaze raging and plumes coming out of the front door of the Na Ladprao pub in the northern part of the Thai capital. People are seen trying to flee as thick black smoke billows into the sky. Rescuers said the fire was reported around midnight. Thailand Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul told reporters at the scene that 27 people died and that several of the injured have been taken to the hospital. He said the cause of the fire is under investigation. Anutin said a musician who was performing at the pub told him that he saw smoke coming out of a circuit breaker near the stage before the power went out, then an explosion was heard and thick smoke quickly filled the place. Many of victims were found in the restrooms, at the back of the pub, Anutin added. Firefighters took about half an hour to bring the fire under control. Photos of the aftermath show charred tables and chairs, and the damaged interior of the pub. Thailand has seen similar tragedies in the past. In 2022, 14 people were killed by a fire at a music pub in the eastern part of the country. And more than a decade before that, 66 people were killed and more than 200 injured in a fire during a Jan. 1, 2009 New Year’s Eve celebration at the Santika nightclub in Thailand’s capital. That blaze was apparently sparked by an indoor fireworks display. Follow Topics: BANGKOK FIRE THAILAND RELATED A cargo train hits a public bus at a Bangkok rail crossing, killing at least 8 At least six killed in shooting incident in Bangkok Latest Updates Global winners of ICC Development Awards announced Top UN official accuses Hamas of Gaza aid obstruction Saudi housing ministry signs $1.22bn in H1 contracts, offers 13k opportunities Saudi Arabia’s Royal Commission for Makkah draws 17.5 million visitors to historical sites Iran’s Guards say struck US military bases in Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
