Arab News Sunday . June 21, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Business & Economy Trump tries to blame Reflecting Pool woes on vandalism, without offering substantiation Previous Pause Next Home Iran talks to begin Sunday in Switzerland, Tehran says Hormuz closed over Lebanon fighting Iran talks to begin Sunday in Switzerland, Tehran says Hormuz closed over Lebanon fighting UPDATE Vessels at the Strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam, Oman, June 18, 2026. (AFP/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/4g9xn Updated 21 June 2026 04:42 AP June 20, 2026 17:28 Follow Pakistan said technical-level talks to begin on Sunday in Burgenstock with Qatari mediators also participating Foreign Ministry spokesperson Bagahei signaled little might happen until Iran feels US is living up to deal TYRE, Lebanon: Iran dealt two quick blows to the interim agreement with the United States on Saturday, angered by Israel’s continued attacks in Lebanon, saying it had closed the Strait of Hormuz and also announcing that while its negotiators were going to Switzerland for talks, not much is likely to happen there. Key mediator Pakistan, meanwhile, said the technical-level talks will begin on Sunday in Burgenstock, Switzerland, with Qatari mediators also participating. In Tehran’s first salvo, Iran’s joint military command said the strait had been closed, citing the Israeli attacks and US “bad faith” and “clear breach of its commitments” by failing to end the war. Its statement on state television warned that “if the aggression continues, subsequent steps have been planned.” Shortly after that, the state broadcaster announced that Iran’s negotiating team was heading to Switzerland “in the coming minutes,” a trip that had been originally planned for Friday. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Esmail Bagahei, however, signaled that little might happen until Iran feels the US is living up to the deal. “This trip is therefore about demanding that the other side fulfill its obligations,” he said, adding that negotiations toward a final agreement will begin only once key commitments are upheld. If they are not, he said, “then the memorandum of understanding as a whole will be jeopardized.” In Washington, Vice President JD Vance confirmed on Saturday that the top US negotiators — Jared Kushner and Steve Witkoff — were already in Switzerland and have been working through technical details of the anticipated negotiations on Iran’s nuclear program. Vance told Fox News that he expects to leave for Switzerland “sometime the next couple of days” but acknowledged that “it’s always a delicate coordination dance.” Meanwhile, the global economy braced for more uncertainty. Ships had begun transiting the strait after the interim US-Iran agreement was signed earlier in the week, a milestone that has left plenty of questions unanswered. Israeli attacks in Lebanon kill at least 16 Earlier Saturday, Israeli strikes on southern Lebanon killed at least 16 people, including two children, hours after reports emerged of a ceasefire agreement there. Seven people remained trapped under the rubble after the strikes hit the southern city of Nabatiyeh and nearby villages, Lebanon’s National News Agency said. The death toll in the latest war between Israel and Hezbollah has now surpassed 4,000, Lebanon’s health ministry later announced. Mediators were scrambling to halt the fighting between Israel and the militant Hezbollah group after a heavy exchange on Friday killed at least 47 people in Lebanon and four Israeli soldiers. An Israeli military official said Hezbollah had fired more than 50 projectiles at Israeli forces in southern Lebanon overnight. The official spoke anonymously in line with regulations. Israel’s army said it struck dozens of Hezbollah targets and militants in southern Lebanon, including Hezbollah command centers. On Friday, the Israeli ambassador to Washington, Yechiel Leiter, said Israel “remains firmly committed to an immediate ceasefire” if Hezbollah honors the agreement and ceases hostilities. On Saturday, Hezbollah said it had committed to the ceasefire but blamed Israel for violating it several times Friday night. A statement by the group’s military wing said it would abide by the ceasefire but would also repel attacks by Israeli troops. The conflict could sink the US-Iran deal Hezbollah and Israel went to war two days after the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on Feb. 28, with Hezbollah firing rockets and drones at northern Israel and Israel seizing large swaths of southern Lebanon. The interim US-Iran agreement reopened the Strait of Hormuz, which Iran had closed as the war unfolded — cutting off the global economy from significant supplies of oil and natural gas. The deal also envisages the relaunch of talks on Iran’s nuclear program, a core issue in the war. Neither Israel nor Hezbollah are signatories to the deal, which calls for a halt to military operations in Lebanon and for the country’s sovereignty to be respected. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to keep Israeli forces in southern Lebanon until any threat to Israel is eliminated. Hezbollah has refused to halt its attacks unless Israel commits to withdrawing from Lebanon, which Iran says is also a condition of the deal. A new round of US-backed talks between the Lebanese government and Israel is expected to take place in Washington next week. The fighting in the south is near the Israel-Lebanon border A strike on the village of Barish killed four members of a family, parents and two children. In Arab Salim village, a body was pulled from a destroyed house, and in the villages of Doueir and Kfar Rumman, drone strikes killed a person on a motorcycle and a Lebanese soldier. Nine people were killed in strikes in the villages of Qannarit, Sohmor and Shehour. Plumes of smoke rose into the sky over southern Lebanon and Israeli jets flew low over the coastal city of Tyre. Residents there told The Associated Press they were relieved that Tyre had been spared in recent days but the sounds of Israeli planes reminded them the war is not over. Many doubted a ceasefire — even if agreed on — would hold. “Our entire lives would change if there’s a ceasefire,” said Hussein Khoshman, a Tyre resident. Netanyahu’s office did not immediately comment on ceasefire efforts. On Friday, Netanyahu said that, on his orders, the Israeli army had “struck powerfully” 150 Hezbollah targets, killing dozens of militants. Military spokesman Brig. Gen. Effie Defrin said the Israeli forces were operating in a “forward defense zone” and would continue doing so. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN US-IRAN TALKS RELATED ANALYSIS PHOTOS What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? Pakistan, Saudi Arabia back next phase of US-Iran talks, discuss finalization of economic pact Latest Updates US rejects Iran’s Strait of Hormuz closure claim as peace talks open in Switzerland India’s Cockroach Party supporters bang plates to call for education minister's resignation Trump tries to blame Reflecting Pool woes on vandalism, without offering substantiation Counterterror police investigate after 5 hurt in Edinburgh attacks that appeared to target Muslims Iran talks to begin Sunday in Switzerland, Tehran says Hormuz closed over Lebanon fighting Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability EN
