Arab News Friday . July 10, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT SAUDI FOOTBALL SAUDI PRO LEAGUE FOOTBALL MOTORSPORT TENNIS CRICKET GOLF E-SPORT PODCAST WORLD CUP 2026 RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East Offbeat World Andy Burnham poised to become Britain’s next PM after most Labour lawmakers support him Previous Pause Next Home Major gains for Egypt at 2026 World Cup, say former national team members Major gains for Egypt at 2026 World Cup, say former national team members Previous 0 seconds of 59 secondsVolume 0% Egypt’s Emam Ashour, left, celebrates with teammates after scoring the opening goal during the World Cup 2026 round of 32 match against Australia on July 3, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/8499f Updated 10 July 2026 14:08 FADY FRANCIS July 10, 2026 14:00 Follow Despite the bitter disappointment at the manner of exit against Argentina, the future is bright for the Pharaohs, according to former stars CAIRO: Egypt have made major gains at 2026 World Cup despite their elimination in the knockout stage, former national team members told Arab News recently. For the latest updates, follow us @ArabNewsSport Egypt suffered a controversial exit after a late 3-2 loss to reigning world champions Argentina, with many calls from the French referee causing anger and frustration for players and fans. The Egyptian Football Association declared in a statement that they “cannot remain silent regarding the refereeing decisions witnessed during the match against Argentina as well as the failure to make appropriate use of the Video Assistant Referee system. “Several key incidents raised serious concerns and left profound questions about the consistency and fairness of decisions that directly influenced the course of the game.” Despite the loss, Egypt made history by recording their first World Cup win and qualification for the knockout stages. In addition, they won their first Round of 16 game. Former Egyptian national team players and coaches told Arab News that many positives could be taken from the participation. Taher Abu Zeid, a former Egypt skipper and minister of sports, said: “We now have technical and administrative stability, and this is one of the most important gains from our participation in the World Cup. “We have an excellent coach (Hossam Hassan) who gained extensive experience from his first World Cup appearance, as well as from his previous experience as a striker for Egypt in the 1990 World Cup. “He will be able to complete the project for the next phase and achieve great results in the upcoming tournaments.” Former Egypt coach Farouk Jaafar expressed pride in the team: “The Egyptian national team’s preparations under Hossam Hassan were thorough, benefiting from a diverse schedule of friendly matches. “Those experiences made Egypt a strong opponent against defending champions Argentina. The team took a two-goal lead, and had it not been for the referee’s decisions, Egypt could have advanced to the next stage.” Tarek El-Sayed, a former Egypt international player, said that team achieved “significant gains.” They scored eight goals during a tournament that saw several outstanding performers. This included Karim Hafez and Haitham Hassan against Argentina; Mostafa Zico, who scored two goals in the tournament, and Mostafa Shobeir, who saved a penalty from Lionel Messi. Emam Ashour was also singled out for his excellent performances. El-Sayed said the presence of young players including Haitham Hassan, Ibrahim Adel, and Mahmoud Saber marks the beginning of a positive future for Egyptian football, and a better FIFA ranking. The national team will receive $15 million from FIFA for reaching the Round of 16. Follow Topics: FIFA WORLD CUP 2026 WORLD CUP 2026 EGYPT FOOTBALL RELATED VIDEO Egypt file complaint against referee after controversial World Cup exit Arab teams at 2026 World Cup: ‘History made’: Egyptian pride despite World Cup heartbreak Latest Updates Spanish royals mark minute of silence for wildfire victims Sudan’s cholera outbreak may get worse due to conflict and rains, WHO warns Man nearly sucked out of ‘detached’ window on Ryanair flight Andy Burnham poised to become Britain’s next PM after most Labour lawmakers support him Modi visits New Zealand as trade deal sparks India pushback Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
