Arab News Monday . June 29, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Saudi Arabia Lifestyle Media Middle East Vessels avoid Omani route through Hormuz after ship attack Previous Pause Next Home Iraqi FM makes first visit to Syria since Assad’s fall Iraqi FM makes first visit to Syria since Assad’s fall UPDATE Syria's Foreign Minister Asaad Al-Shaibani receives Iraq's Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein at Tishrin Palace in Damascus on Monday. (SANA / AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/baw6m Updated 29 June 2026 21:55 AFP June 29, 2026 12:57 Follow Fuad Hussein meets President Ahmad Al-Sharaa in Damascus Two countries to establish joint committee overseeing energy, agriculture, water, transport and border crossings BAGHDAD: Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein on Monday discussed cooperation including on energy on his first trip to Syria since the December 2024 downfall of longtime ruler Bashar Assad. Relations between the two countries have faced upheaval since the fall of Assad, who was a close ally of previous governments in Baghdad. During the visit, Hussein met with his Syrian counterpart Asaad Al-Shaibani and Syrian President Ahmad Al-Sharaa, according to Syrian state media. A joint statement issued by both sides said Hussein and Shaibani discussed “ways to strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries and develop joint cooperation in various fields.” The two sides also agreed to establish a joint committee overseeing energy, agriculture, water, transport and border crossings. They also discussed “mechanisms for the transit of energy supplies and a project to rehabilitate the oil pipeline linking Iraq and Syria,” according to the statement. Iraq at first approached new ruler Al-Sharaa cautiously but is now seeking to bolster trade and security cooperation with Syria, which is emerging from years of civil war. An Iraqi diplomatic source earlier told AFP that Hussein would meet Al-Sharaa and Al-Shaibani, as well as Energy Minister Mohammad Al-Bashir. A statement from Hussein’s office meanwhile said the visit seeks to “deepen joint cooperation in various political, security, economic and trade fields” and address regional and international developments. With its oil exports disrupted due to the Middle East war, Iraq in recent months has begun exporting limited amounts of oil through Syria. Hussein is the first senior Iraqi political figure to visit Damascus since the new authorities took power, though other Iraqi officials have done so. Iraqi intelligence chief Hamid Al-Shatri visited the month Assad was ousted, while Syria’s Al-Shaibani made his first trip to Baghdad in March last year. In May 2025, several powerful Iraqi politicians voiced opposition to a planned visit by Al-Sharaa to Iraq for an Arab League summit, with security sources telling AFP an old arrest warrant from his time as a member of Al-Qaeda remained in place. Al-Shaibani attended instead. Al-Sharaa, whose Islamist group spearheaded the offensive that toppled Assad, was imprisoned for years in Iraq on charges of belonging to Al-Qaeda following the 2003 US-led invasion. In February this year, the United States completed the transfer of 5,700 Daesh group detainees, including hundreds of foreigners, from Syria to Iraq, after they had been held in Kurdish-run jails in northeast Syria for years. In April, Iraq reopened a once-bustling border crossing with Syria more than a decade after it was closed to trade following the rise of Daesh. Three crossings between the countries are now operational. Iraqi authorities view the new crossing as strategic as it also helps link the country and neighboring Gulf states to Turkiye as part of a regional infrastructure development project. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD RELATED VIDEO Syria condemns Israeli incursions, urges UN action as Arab parliament backs sovereignty Syria and Iraq reopen vital Yarubiyah-Rabia crossing Latest Updates Europeans on UN Security Council warn businesses of legal, reputational risks in West Bank settlement deals Syria has turned the page on extremism but Israel remains a threat, spy chief tells UN WhatsApp to launch usernames and option to hide phone number Vessels avoid Omani route through Hormuz after ship attack New Global Sport Conference returns to Riyadh ahead of Esports Nations Cup 2026 Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk EN
