Arab News Thursday . June 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT SAUDI FOOTBALL SAUDI PRO LEAGUE FOOTBALL MOTORSPORT TENNIS CRICKET GOLF E-SPORT PODCAST WORLD CUP 2026 RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Lifestyle Middle East US will be candid in push for ‘hard-line’ NATO alliance, Hegseth says Previous Pause Next Home Kane double fires England World Cup bid as Ronaldo’s Portugal stumble Kane double fires England World Cup bid as Ronaldo’s Portugal stumble Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo walks off the pitch after their 1-1 draw against DR Congo in the FIFA World Cup 2026 Group K match on June 17, 2026. (Getty Images via AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/bjhw2 Updated 18 June 2026 10:09 AFP June 18, 2026 04:51 Follow Harry Kane scores twice before goals from Jude Bellingham and Marcus Rashford made the game safe Portuguese great Ronaldo finds the going tough against a resolute Congolese defense in Houston LOS ANGELES, United States: England launched their World Cup bid with a rollercoaster 4-2 win against Croatia on Wednesday as Cristiano Ronaldo and Portugal stumbled to a draw against the Democratic Republic of Congo. For the latest updates, follow us @ArabNewsSport In an enthralling Group L game at the Texas home of the Dallas Cowboys NFL team, Harry Kane scored twice before goals from Jude Bellingham and Marcus Rashford made the game safe as England began their bid to end a 60-year wait for a major trophy. Kane got the ball rolling by slotting home a penalty at the second attempt after the referee ordered him to re-take it when Croatian ‘keeper Dominik Livakovic was adjudged to have been off his line. Croatia fought back and Martin Baturina brought them level after 36 minutes before unmarked Kane equalled Gary Lineker’s England record of 10 World Cup goals with a thumping header. But the English defensive frailties were on show when Petar Musa equalized for Croatia in first-half stoppage time. Only in the second half did England impose their will. Bellingham scored a classy goal after outrunning his defender before substitute Rashford took his time before slotting the ball into the net on 85 minutes. Kane revealed that England’s German coach Thomas Tuchel had told his players at half-time to throw caution to the wind. “The manager gave us a speech at half-time just to say, look, if we lose, we lose. We’re losing our way,” Kane said. “And I think you saw that, the way we come out in the second half. We went full gas. And they couldn’t live with it.” Struggling Ronaldo Earlier, Portuguese great Ronaldo, 41, equaled the record of appearing in six World Cups set on Tuesday by his old nemesis Lionel Messi but his side were held to an upset 1-1 draw by DR Congo. Ronaldo found the going tough against a resolute Congolese defense in Houston. Joao Neves opened the scoring for the Portuguese in the first half but Yoane Wissa equalized with a headed goal in first-half injury time to give his nation their first ever World Cup point. The result once again renewed scrutiny of Portugal coach Roberto Martinez’s insistence on starting the aging Ronaldo. But Martinez defended the veteran’s selection despite an ineffective performance. “It makes no sense to take off the best goal scorer in world football in a game that you need goals,” Martinez said. Ronaldo left the field without speaking to reporters but later posted on Instagram: “It’s not the start we wanted, but it’s a long road and it’s not finished.” DR Congo’s achievement was even greater given that their preparations have been disrupted by the Ebola outbreak in their country. “It is a tremendous source of pride to have earned DR Congo’s first-ever point at the FIFA World Cup, as well as its first goal,” their coach Sebastien Desabre said. “I am very proud of my players because they represented the Congo in a very positive way and the entire country deserves it.” Several Portugal players meanwhile wore wrist bands in tribute to late team-mate Diogo Jota, who was killed in a car crash last year. In other games Wednesday, Ghana snatched a 1-0 victory over Panama with an injury-time winner in Toronto to join England on three points in Group L. An attritional battle looked destined to finish in a goalless draw until Caleb Yirenkyi bundled in the winning goal in the fifth minute of stoppage time for the Black Stars. Ghana reached the quarter-finals of the 2010 World Cup but have been eliminated in the group stage at their two most recent appearances in the tournament in 2022 and 2014. The African side will play England in their second Group L game in Boston on June 23. In Wednesday’s late game, Colombia defeated debutants Uzkbekistan 3-1 in an entertaining Group K game at Mexico City’s Estadio Azteca. Bayern Munich star Luis Diaz set up an opening volleyed goal for Daniel Munoz and then scored Colombia’s second in the 65th minute before Jaminton Campaz added a third with a header in stoppage time. Abbosbek Fayzullaev claimed a sliver of history by scoring Uzkekistan’s first ever goal in a World Cup match. Follow Topics: FOOTBALL WORLD CUP 2026 FOOTBALL ENGLAND HARRY KANE PORTUGAL RONALDO RELATED DR Congo score 1st World Cup goal, pull out surprise draw vs. Portugal Kane scores twice as England beat Croatia to launch World Cup charge Latest Updates Oil falls to 3-1/2-month low after U.S., Iran sign ceasefire deal Lina Ghotmeh: ‘Being in AlUla, you start to understand all the beauty of the world’ Trump, Netanyahu clash over Iran strategy and Lebanon ceasefire Daily Telegraph columnist argues Saudi Arabia should join G7 US will be candid in push for ‘hard-line’ NATO alliance, Hegseth says Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit EN Advertisement
