Arab News Saturday . June 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Offbeat World Middle East Saudi Arabia Football Canada’s Larin rescues draw with late goal against Bosnia in Group B opener Previous Pause Next Home Denmark and Pakistan push for end to impunity for violence against UN peacekeepers Denmark and Pakistan push for end to impunity for violence against UN peacekeepers General view of a UN Security Council meeting at United Nations headquarters in New York on January 15, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/wawjg Updated 13 June 2026 02:01 EPHREM KOSSAIFY June 13, 2026 01:54 Follow Their draft Security Council resolution, seen by Arab News, challenges culture of impunity that has ‘undermined the safety and security’ of UN personnel in world’s most dangerous environments 7 peacekeepers from the UN Interim Force in Lebanon have been killed since the start of the most recent conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in early March NEW YORK CITY: Denmark and Pakistan have tabled a UN Security Council resolution calling for an end to the near-total impunity that perpetrators of attacks against UN peacekeepers have long enjoyed. It is expected to be put to a vote imminently. The draft resolution, seen by Arab News, is framed as a direct challenge to what the council itself acknowledges has become a culture of impunity. The text of the document says that this has “undermined the safety and security” of UN personnel deployed in some of the world’s most dangerous environments. The rate of prosecution for crimes against peacekeepers, the resolution notes, “has remained very low.” It comes at a time when seven peacekeepers working with the UN Interim Force in Lebanon have been killed since the start of the most recent conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in early March. And on on Thursday morning, two Malaysian members of the force were slightly injured by broken glass from a vehicle during an airstrike about a kilometer from a UN position in Tibnin. The push comes from two elected members of the Security Council who have made peacekeeping a defining priority of their two-year tenure. Denmark and Pakistan have been promoting peacekeeping as a key shared priority since taking their seats on the council in January 2025, forming part of a “peacekeeping trio,” alongside South Korea, that has sought to inject fresh momentum into a long-neglected agenda. At its heart, the resolution represents a demand for accountability, placing the burden to investigate and prosecute those responsible for killing or attacking UN peacekeepers squarely on host states, and calling on all relevant parties to cooperate with the UN “to facilitate the identification, investigation and prosecution of perpetrators without delay.” The text of the resolution makes it clear that this is not optional; it insists host states take “all necessary measures” consistent with their obligations under international humanitarian law and international human rights law. The resolution also takes aim at a gap that has long frustrated troop-contributing countries: the absence of any dedicated institutional machinery within the UN system to pursue such cases. It calls for the designation of a senior focal point that can drive coordination across the organization, and encourages countries whose peacekeepers have been victimized to voluntarily deploy trained investigators to assist host states on the ground. The language of the resolution regarding the severity of the threat to UN peacekeepers, also known as “blue helmets” in reference to their protective headgear, is notably stark. The text expresses grave concern about what it describes as an escalation in the “number, scope and sophistication” of attacks, including the use of shelling, improvised explosive devices and unmanned aerial systems, highlighting the evolving arsenal that is increasingly deployed against peacekeeping missions in Africa and the Middle East. The resolution reaffirms the council’s determination to take further steps to address the issue if necessary Since 2013, at least 251 peacekeepers have been killed in the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Mali alone — 80 percent of all peacekeeper deaths caused by malicious acts during that time. Very few of those responsible were brought to justice. Follow Topics: DENMARK PAKISTAN UN PEACEKEEPERS RELATED UN peacekeeping chief outlines options for post-UNIFIL monitoring force in southern Lebanon SPECIAL What UNIFIL’s looming departure means for Lebanon’s volatile southern border Latest Updates Migrants deported from US, including an Iranian woman, arrive in Central African Republic UAE denies media reports alleging transfer of funds to Iran India FM calls Rubio over Gulf ship attacks Canada’s Larin rescues draw with late goal against Bosnia in Group B opener US clears Paramount’s $111 bn Warner Bros. takeover: reports Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen EN
