Arab News Wednesday . July 08, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Middle East Russia tries to jam Musk’s Starlink systems to counter Ukrainian drones Previous Pause Next Home Gulf, Arab states condemn latest Iranian attacks Gulf, Arab states condemn latest Iranian attacks UPDATE Above, Kuwaiti City on the background on April 23, 2024. The Kuwaiti army said air defenses were confronting “hostile” missile and drone attacks. (AFP file photo) Short Url https://arab.news/bsnwe Updated 08 July 2026 10:29 ARAB NEWS July 08, 2026 10:20 Follow Doha emphasizes necessity of “continuing on the path of dialogue and diplomacy, de-escalation’ DUBAI: Kuwati on Wednesday condemned the latest Iranian attack, describing Tehran’s military actions a continuation of “brazen aggressions at a time when regional and international efforts aimed at de-escalation are underway” which “undermined efforts to reduce tensions.” The security of the State of Kuwait, its sovereignty, and the safety of its citizens and residents on its soil are a red line that cannot be crossed, statement from the country’s foreign ministry said. Jordan issued a similar condemnation on “the brutal Iranian attacks” against Kuwait, describing them “a flagrant violation of Kuwait’s sovereignty, a threat to its security and stability and the safety of its territories, a dangerous escalation, and a blatant breach of international law and the United Nations Charter.” Qatar also condemned the repeated Iranian attacks on Bahrain and Kuwait. In a statement from its foreign affairs ministry, Doha emphasized the “necessity of sparing the region the consequences of these unjustified attacks, continuing on the path of dialogue and diplomacy, de-escalation, and building on the gains achieved within the framework of the memorandum of understanding, in a manner that contributes to consolidating security and stability at both the regional and international levels.” Egypt has also condemned the repeated Iranian attacks on Kuwait, Bahrain and other Gulf states, and described Tehran’s actions “a blatant violation of their sovereignty, a serious threat to the security and stability of the Gulf region, and an unacceptable escalation that would increase tensions in the region.” “Egypt emphasizes its full rejection of all actions that infringe upon the security and sovereignty of sisterly nations or threaten the security and stability of the region,” its foreign affairs ministry said in a statement, and renewed its call for restraint and de-escalation in order to preserve regional security and safeguard peace and stability. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard ​Corps said it carried out a joint missile and drone operation against Ali Al Salem Air Base in Kuwait, and other key US military sites in Bahrain in retaliation for US military strikes in Iran. US early on Wednesday launched a wave of airstrikes on Iran in response to attacks on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz. Anwar Gargash, the diplomatic adviser to the UAE president, have commented that “Iran’s attacks on Qatari and Saudi commercial tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, and the repeated aggression against our sisterly Bahrain and Kuwait, are a clear indicator that Tehran remains incapable of committing to the requirements of de-escalation and turning the page on war.” “The Gulf Arab states cannot remain a target for Iran’s wavering between the logic of escalation and the path of rationality, stability, and peace,” Gargash posted on social media. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN KUWAIT IRAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Iran targets sites in Bahrain, Kuwait after wave of US strikes New attacks on Iran were absolutely necessary, NATO chief says Latest Updates Gulf, Arab states condemn latest Iranian attacks Stem Racing Japan stages first national competition Oil rises as US strikes on Iran raise fears over shaky truce Russia tries to jam Musk’s Starlink systems to counter Ukrainian drones The NATO summit was supposed to focus on defense spending. Trump’s strikes on Iran changed that Editor’s Choice WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader EN
