Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT SAUDI FOOTBALL SAUDI PRO LEAGUE FOOTBALL MOTORSPORT TENNIS CRICKET GOLF E-SPORT PODCAST WORLD CUP 2026 RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East World The Strait of Hormuz‚Äôs future is unsettled even as more ships venture through Previous Pause Next Home Arab teams at 2026 World Cup: Algeria wins over Jordan while Iraq concedes against France Arab teams at 2026 World Cup: Algeria wins over Jordan while Iraq concedes against France With one game left, Jordan is set to face off reigning champions Argentina and Algeria is set to play Austria on Sunday. (REUTERS) Short Url https://arab.news/vee7u Updated 23 June 2026 08:05 AGENCIES June 23, 2026 03:36 Follow PHILADELPHIA: Jordan failed to secure a win in its second World Cup game in California against Algeria on Tuesday. For the latest updates, follow us @ArabNewsSport After dominating the first half of the game with a goal by Nizar Al Rashdan in minute 36, Jordan conceded two goals to Algeria. With one game left, Jordan is set to face off reigning champions Argentina and Algeria is set to play Austria on Sunday. Meanwhile, Kylian Mbappe scored his second brace in as many matches as France eased ‚Äåinto the last 32 with a 3-0 victory over Iraq on Monday in the first match of this World Cup beset by a lengthy weather stoppage. The goals for Mbappe, in his 100th cap, came nearly three hours apart after thunderstorms ‚Äãin the region delayed the second-half kickoff by approximately two hours. ‚ÄúThe first half was good,‚Äù French manager Didier Deschamps said. ‚ÄúIn the second half, we picked up where we left off, bearing in mind that it wasn‚Äôt easy given what happened, and we managed to put the game beyond reach. That‚Äôs a very good thing.‚Äù Mbappe now sits on 16 all-time World Cup goals, pulling level with the former record-holder, Germany‚Äôs Miroslav Klose. Earlier on Monday, Lionel Messi set a new benchmark of 18 World Cup goals with a brace in Argentina‚Äôs 2-0 win over Austria. Mbappe‚Äôs four goals also put him one behind Messi in the Golden Boot ‚Äårace. Reigning Ballon d‚ÄôOr ‚Äåwinner Ousmane Dembele also scored after halftime for two-time champions France, ‚Äãwho ‚Äåwill ‚ÅÝface Norway ‚Äãon ‚ÅÝSaturday with the Group I title on the line. Norway defeated Senegal 3-2 later Monday night to also move to 2-0-0 in the event. Because of their superior goal difference, France need only a draw against Norway on Friday in Foxborough, Mass., to top the group. Dembele had faced criticism for what some regarded as a poor performance in France‚Äôs 3-1 opening win over Senegal. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no issue,‚Äù Deschamps said. ‚ÄúOusmane is confident in himself. He can sometimes get people talking, but I have complete faith in him. He‚Äôs still finding his bearings because his role is ‚ÅÝdifferent from the one he has at his club.‚Äù Iraq remain alive for one ‚Äåof the eight third-place spots that will qualify for the round ‚Äåof 32. They probably would need a win in their group finale ‚Äãagainst Senegal and help elsewhere. They could be without ‚ÄåAymen Hussein, who scored in their 4-1 opening defeat by Norway but came off in the ‚Äå26th minute on Monday with an apparent injury. ‚ÄúYou have one moment of excellence from one of the best players in the world,‚Äù Ali Al-Hamadi, who came on for Hussein, said of Mbappe‚Äôs first-half goal. ‚ÄúAnd then we have to go inside and wait for an hour and a half. You know, it‚Äôs really difficult to come out and keep the same ‚Äåintensity against these great players. And in the end I think we made too many mistakes again.‚Äù France dominated the early stages and Mbappe capitalized ‚ÅÝin the 14th minute. After ‚ÅÝan innocent-looking sequence on the right, Mbappe received Michael Olize‚Äôs pass, took one touch to his left, and with defenders affording him space, unfurled a powerful strike from the edge of the area that sailed beyond Ahmed Basil‚Äôs dive. The 20-yard blast came off his weaker left foot. The weather delay could have served as a recovery period for Iraq, who spent most of the first half chasing the ball. Instead, they gifted France and Mbappe a second in the 54th minute after a dreadful mistake from a goal kick. Dembele was the provider for Mbappe‚Äôs tap-in. Dembele scored himself 12 minutes later after controlling Olize‚Äôs incisive pass and finishing low past Basil. With the outcome never in doubt, the weather provided most of the drama. After referee Drew Fischer blew his halftime whistle as the storms were already beginning, the skies opened further ‚Äãand spectators were told to seek shelter in the ‚Äãstadium concourses. The players finally re-emerged for warm-ups about 1 hour, 40 minutes later, and even then, the restart was delayed further as stadium personnel used squeegees to shuttle standing water off the east side of the pitch. Follow Topics: FIFA WORLD CUP 2026 WORLD CUP 2026 JORDAN WORLD CUP 2026 ALGERIA WORLD CUP 2026 IRAQ Latest Updates Taiwan begins 5-day military drill with tanks patrolling streets Saudi and Qatari foreign ministers discuss developments in US-Iran negotiations US authorizes Iranian oil sales amid talks on final peace deal Manchester United secure land for new 100,000-seater stadium The Strait of Hormuz‚Äôs future is unsettled even as more ships venture through Editor‚Äôs Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah‚Äôs influence ‚Äî the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‚Äòtrapped‚Äô between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
