Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Business & Economy Lifestyle World Sotheby’s launches $9.7m luxury auction in Abu Dhabi Previous Pause Next Home Qatar says US-Iran hotline crucial for Hormuz reopening Qatar says US-Iran hotline crucial for Hormuz reopening US Vice President JD Vance, left, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani during a meeting between the US, Iran, Pakistan and Qatar in Lucerne, Switzerland, on June 21, 2026, as part of high-level talks to end the Middle East conflict. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/9r9wr Updated 24 June 2026 12:00 ARAB NEWS June 24, 2026 11:54 Follow DUBAI: Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani said his country would ‌resume normal liquefied ‌natural ⁠gas production “within a ⁠few weeks”, the Financial Times reported on Wednesday. But establishing a hotline between ⁠the US and ‌Iran ‌is essential to ‌reopen the Strait ‌of Hormuz, he told the FT in an interview. Al-Thani noted that the so-called “hotline” agreed by the warring parties at their talks in Switzerland was needed “to counter ‘disinformation’ and ensure co-ordination while mines were cleared from the crucial waterway.” He noted that the communication was essential to get information needed to guarantee the safety of vessels. “So the hotline’s purpose is to make sure that any ship that gets any type of threat is to be verified by Iran … and to let the ship pass safely.” Sheikh Mohammed said Qatar, the world’s second-largest LNG exporter whose facilities were hit by Iran in the early weeks of the war, had already started to prepare its tankers after the warring parties signed a memorandum of understanding last week. “Within a few weeks, production will come back to normal, except the damaged facility,” Sheikh Mohammed said. “Our teams have been mobilized already for a few weeks. QatarEnergy is preparing for operations to come back to normal as soon as the situation in the strait normalizes.” QatarEnergy ‌suspended LNG production after the US ⁠and Israel ⁠launched their war on Iran on February 28 following a drone attack on its huge Ras Laffan plant. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN QATAR US IRAN STRAIT OF HORMUZ Latest Updates DeiNai showcases AI-powered creator marketing platform at Huawei Riyadh AI Summit Israel, Lebanon discuss US-backed proposal for transfer of some southern territory to Lebanese army Foreigner real estate ownership rules a boost for investment, say ministers after Cabinet approval Sotheby’s launches $9.7m luxury auction in Abu Dhabi Oman opens temporary Strait of Hormuz shipping routes, says no tolls will be charged Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
