Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Middle East World Business & Economy Sport Saudi inflation steady at 1.8% in June, despite rising rents: GASTAT Previous Pause Next Home President Aoun says Lebanon will not compromise on its rights, defends framework deal President Aoun says Lebanon will not compromise on its rights, defends framework deal Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 6 secondsVolume 0% Lebanese President Joseph Aoun among Orthodox meeting constituents in Lebanon. (Lb presidency X account) Next Short Url https://arab.news/z5crz Updated 15 July 2026 12:10 ARAB NEWS July 15, 2026 12:10 Follow DUBAI: The proposed Trilateral framework between the United States, Israel and Lebanon remains the best available option and has already begun producing results, Lebanese president Joseph Aoun told a delegation from the Orthodox Meeting on Wednesday, adding that Washington had started paying attention to Lebanon’s position and that the Lebanese file was now before US President Donald Trump. Aoun said Lebanon’s objectives were clear and that there would be no concessions on issues related to the country’s rights. He emphasized that differences of opinion were legitimate as long as they did not lead to division, calling for dialogue among Lebanese under the banner of the national interest rather than personal agendas. The president also warned that hatred undermined states and institutions instead of building them, urging Lebanese to make choices that safeguarded their country and shielded it from external ambitions. While acknowledging that the road ahead was difficult and full of challenges, he expressed confidence that positive outcomes could be achieved to bring an end to the bloodshed. Following the meeting with President Aoun, Orthodox Meeting Secretary-General and former MP Marwan Abu Fadel said the group supported the president’s position and the constructive steps he was taking to help Lebanon overcome its crisis. He added that any attempt to undermine the presidency’s standing constitutes an affront to national dignity. Abu Fadel further stressed that Lebanese unity and support for constitutional institutions were essential to securing the desired outcomes and preserving Lebanon during this sensitive period. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON RELATED Lebanon detains man close to Hezbollah for allegedly spying for Israel: judicial official Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting Latest Updates President Aoun says Lebanon will not compromise on its rights, defends framework deal Argentina and England collide with World Cup final spot at stake Israel kills four people in Gaza, including a child, medics say Saudi inflation steady at 1.8% in June, despite rising rents: GASTAT Body of Indian sailor missing after Oman ship attack found Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN
