Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Sport Middle East World PIF, I Squared Capital sign MoU for up to $2bn infrastructure investment The Arab World Cup journey may have ended, but the unity remains Previous Pause Next Home Yemen government says it targeted Sana’a Airport to keep Iranian plane from landing Yemen government says it targeted Sana’a Airport to keep Iranian plane from landing Previous 0 seconds of 9 secondsVolume 0% 1 / 2 Smoke rises after reports of a strike hitting near the Sanaa International Airport, as seen from Sanaa, Yemen, July 13, 2026. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah 2 / 2 Smoke rises after reports of a strike hitting near the Sanaa International Airport, as seen from Sanaa, Yemen, July 13, 2026. REUTERS/Khaled Abdullah Next Short Url https://arab.news/mnw6c Updated 13 July 2026 15:04 ARAB NEWS July 13, 2026 11:23 Follow DUBAI: Yemen’s armed forces said they targeted the runway at Sana’a Airport on Monday in order to block an Iranian plane from landing. The Yemeni Ministry of Defense called for the evacuation of Sana’a Airport as authorities warned that aircraft violating Yemen’s airspace and sovereignty would be confronted. Earlier, Yemeni officials said Houthi militias had taken a Red Cross pilot and his assistant hostage at the airport, adding to concerns over the rapidly deteriorating situation. Chairman of the Yemeni Leadership Council Rashad Al-Alimi held the Houthi militia responsible for the latest escalation and its consequences. He said the group had insisted on proceeding with what he described as the illegal reception of an Iranian aircraft. Yemeni officials said the government had tried through several channels to persuade Iran and the Houthis to “see reason,” but warned that Tehran would be held legally and morally responsible for any violation of Yemeni airspace. “Yemen has a people and a leadership that will defend it on land, at sea, and in the air, whatever the consequences,” the armed forces said. Follow Topics: YEMEN IRAN SANAA AIRPORT RELATED Saudi project clears 1,293 explosive devices in Yemen Yemeni military ready for any Houthi escalation, spokesman says Latest Updates New Liverpool boss Iraola says club need more signings ahead of new season PIF, I Squared Capital sign MoU for up to $2bn infrastructure investment The Arab World Cup journey may have ended, but the unity remains Yemen government says it targeted Sana’a Airport to keep Iranian plane from landing Gulf foreign ministers: Iran proxies, missiles must be addressed for lasting peace Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
