Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Saudi Arabia Sport Middle East France look like World Cup juggernaut with fearsome foursome of Mbappé, Dembélé, Olize and Barcola Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon’s Aoun defends US-backed framework, says it preserves state authority and rights Lebanon’s Aoun defends US-backed framework, says it preserves state authority and rights Lebanon's President Joseph Aoun (R) meeting with Admiral Brad Cooper (4th L), the commander of US Central Command (CENTCOM), at the presidential palace in Baabda on June 29, 2026. (File/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/45jwd Updated 01 July 2026 17:29 ARAB NEWS July 01, 2026 15:54 Follow The framework agreement, signed under US sponsorship on Friday, aims to pave the way for a longer-term settlement between Lebanon and Israel DUBAI: Lebanese President Joseph Aoun on Wednesday defended a US-backed framework agreement with Israel, saying it reinforced state authority and protected Lebanon’s rights after years of conflict. Speaking during a meeting with delegations from the Beirut and North Lebanon Bar Associations and economic groups, Aoun said the framework that emerged from Washington negotiations “upholds the logic of the state” and reflects Lebanon’s sovereignty. “Lebanon is a sovereign state and negotiates on its own behalf,” Aoun said, adding that negotiations were chosen as “the best possible course of action after the failure of the experience of wars.” He said the agreement safeguards Lebanon’s rights “legally and on the ground,” insisting that the country had not surrendered or abandoned its position. The framework agreement, signed under US sponsorship on Friday, aims to pave the way for a longer-term settlement between Lebanon and Israel and includes provisions related to security arrangements and the disarmament of Iran-backed Hezbollah. Aoun said southern Lebanese communities “from all sects” had the right to live in safety and should not continue to bear the cost of repeated conflict, destruction and displacement. He also praised Lebanese Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri’s efforts to prevent internal tensions, saying there was consensus that “incitement and attacks on the army are unacceptable.” Aoun rejected reports that Lebanon was considering dismissing the army commander or heads of security agencies, saying their role was “fundamental” in maintaining security and extending state sovereignty. The agreement comes after months of fighting between Israel and Hezbollah, which escalated after the group launched attacks on Israel in March, prompting Israeli airstrikes and a ground operation in southern Lebanon. Israel has said any withdrawal of its forces from southern Lebanon would depend on Hezbollah’s disarmament, while Lebanese officials have stressed the need to restore full state authority over the country. Negotiation the only path Lebanon’s foreign minister Youssef Rajji on Wednesday also said the state-led negotiating process was the only way to secure a full Israeli withdrawal and lasting agreement. He called for local, regional and international efforts to support a single Lebanese-led track, while warning that parallel initiatives could weaken its negotiating position and undermine efforts to protect sovereignty. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON RELATED ANALYSIS Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? In south Lebanon, Netanyahu says Israel will stay as long as Hezbollah ‘threatens us’ Latest Updates Berlin makes bid to build more US weaponry in Germany As deportation protections end, Haitians confront fear and uncertainty Saudi fencer, 9, dreams of Olympic saber gold France look like World Cup juggernaut with fearsome foursome of Mbappé, Dembélé, Olize and Barcola UK maritime agency: Small boats with gunmen approach vessels off Yemen Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency EN
