Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Business & Economy Media Saudi Arabia Middle East Lebanon president rejects Israeli occupation, foreign interference as Washington talks begin Previous Pause Next Home Oman and Iran to pursue talks on managing Strait of Hormuz navigation Oman and Iran to pursue talks on managing Strait of Hormuz navigation Ships in the Strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam, Oman, on Monday. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/6p4f5 Updated 23 June 2026 17:51 REUTERS June 23, 2026 17:49 Follow Oman and Iran reaffirmed their commitment to the strait being a secure and open route ​for international navigation Oman and Iran agreed on Tuesday to press on with ​discussions about the future administration of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz, including maritime services in the strategic waterway and the costs associated with them. In a joint statement issued after talks in Muscat, the two countries said a joint working group involving their foreign ministries ‌would be ‌formed to continue the discussions ​and ‌that they ⁠would ​consult other ⁠littoral states and relevant parties. The move appears to implement a provision of the memorandum of understanding signed last week that calls for Iran to hold talks with Oman and other Gulf coastal states on the future management of ⁠navigation and maritime services in the strait, ‌a vital waterway ‌for global oil supplies. The agreement ​was announced following a ‌visit by Iranian Parliament Speaker Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf ‌and Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi, who met Oman’s Sultan Haitham bin Tariq and held talks with Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Albusaidi. In the statement, Oman and ‌Iran, the two states bordering the strait, reaffirmed their commitment to ensuring ⁠safe ⁠passage through the waterway in accordance with international law while underlining sovereignty over their territorial waters. Since the start of the US-Israeli war against Iran in February, the strait has been largely closed to commercial shipping. The United States blockaded Iranian ports after Iran started effectively blocking the strait. Oman and Iran reaffirmed their commitment to the strait being a secure and open route ​for international navigation ​and to promoting maritime safety, freedom of navigation and regional stability. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED The Strait of Hormuz’s future is unsettled even as more ships venture through UPDATE Iran says Hormuz closed as US-Iran deal falters over Lebanon Latest Updates Oman and Iran to pursue talks on managing Strait of Hormuz navigation UK approval for Gatwick airport expansion lawful, court rules Kingdom sees 60% drop in road deaths since 2016 Leader of Russia-backed Georgian region resigns to become Putin adviser Marriott International, Blacksand ink $1.33bn deal for 10 hotels in Saudi Arabia Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
