Arab News Monday . July 06, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Russian attack on Kyiv kills seven, hits apartments, other buildings Previous Pause Next Home Syrian security forces foil assassination cell in Hama province Syrian security forces foil assassination cell in Hama province Syria is navigating a fragile political transition following the collapse of Bashar al-Assad's decades-long dictatorship in December 2024. (SANA photo) Short Url https://arab.news/pwdpx Updated 06 July 2026 06:51 ARAB NEWS July 06, 2026 04:19 Follow Seven held during raid by Internal Security Forces Latest security sweep comes amid Syria's fragile political transition DAMASCUS: Internal Security Forces in Hama province dismantled a criminal cell operating in the al-Ghab area on Sunday, arresting all seven of its members. A source at Syria's Ministry of Interior told SANA that one of the detainees confirmed involvement in the assassination of a resident of the Salhab area in Hama province. The killing, the source added, was documented in a video recording. Efforts are continuing to identify additional suspects believed to be linked to the cell. Syria is navigating a fragile political transition following the collapse of Bashar al-Assad's decades-long dictatorship in December 2024. The regime's rapid fall, triggered by a sweeping opposition offensive, led to the establishment of the Syrian Transitional Government in March 2025. Led by President Ahmed al-Sharaa — former commander of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) — the provisional administration has spent the past year and a half working to consolidate central authority, draft a new constitution, and rebuild state institutions from the ruins of more than 14 years of civil war. This is not the first such operation reported by Syrian authorities. In October 2025, Internal Security in Latakia announced the arrest of a terrorist cell allegedly planning assassinations targeting media activists and prominent local figures, with officials at the time saying the plot was aimed at destabilizing the province. Investigators alleged businessman Rami Makhlouf, a cousin of the ousted Assad, had helped finance that cell along with unspecified foreign entities. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD RELATED Syrian authorities arrest leading trafficker in latest anti-drug operation Syria’s parliament takes shape under Al-Sharaa’s managed inclusivity, analysts say Latest Updates Verdict expected in Austrian trial of Syrian ex-general accused of torture Ten-man England survive Mexico comeback to reach quarter-finals Huge crowds expected at Iran leader’s funeral procession Russian attack on Kyiv kills seven, hits apartments, other buildings US seeks ‘revenge’ for thrilling World Cup loss to Belgium 12 years ago Editor’s Choice WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News WORLD America at 250: Why the US still wrestles with its ideals at home and its role abroad EN
