Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT SAUDI FOOTBALL SAUDI PRO LEAGUE FOOTBALL MOTORSPORT TENNIS CRICKET GOLF E-SPORT PODCAST WORLD CUP 2026 RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Saudi Arabia Sport Saudia to launch Tokyo flights in November Previous Pause Next Home Argentina smelt ‘blood in water’ in England win: Scaloni Argentina smelt ‘blood in water’ in England win: Scaloni Previous 0 seconds of 2 minutes, 22 secondsVolume 0% Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni said his team had been unfazed as they sought to drag themselves back into the game. (IMAGN IMAGES via Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/27jbc Updated 16 July 2026 12:37 AFP July 15, 2026 23:04 Follow Lionel Scaloni said his team had scented victory as England sat back after taking a 1-0 lead in their semifinal It was the second time in the knockout rounds that Argentina have won after trailing late in the game ATLANTA: Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni saluted his team’s never-say-die mentality after another come-from-behind victory on Wednesday powered them past England into the World Cup final. For the latest updates, follow us @ArabNewsSport Scaloni said his team had scented victory as England sat back after taking a 1-0 lead in their semifinal in Atlanta and went for broke to secure a deserved 2-1 win. “I think that this team plays the best when we are facing adversity,” Scaloni said. “We had a challenging game, a challenging situation. “There was blood in the water, and we went for it. That’s the feeling that I was getting. “You just have to keep going. We hit the crossbar. We hit the post, and it just couldn’t go in. There’s six or seven chances, but I’m very pleased about that because the team fought to the very end, and I think this is critical.” It was the second time in the knockout rounds that Argentina have won after trailing late in the game following their remarkable last-16 escape act against Egypt — a win Scaloni described at the time as “epic.” Asked how he would describe Wednesday’s victory, Scaloni offered: “Epic, squared?” Scaloni said the win, which sends Argentina into a final showdown against European champions Spain in New Jersey on Sunday, was a team effort. “This group is difficult to explain. It is a show of the collectiveness, the brotherhood that we are in, the the fight to the very end that we have,” Scaloni said. The Argentina coach, who now has the chance to lead the South Americans to four straight major titles after Copa America victories either side of the 2022 World Cup win, said his team had been unfazed as they sought to drag themselves back into the game. “I know the guys. They fear nothing,” he said. “They don’t feel the weight on their shoulders. “They’re playing like they’re seven or eight years old. They’re not thinking about ‘oh, what’s going to happen if we miss or they’re not thinking about the semifinal or final?’” Follow Topics: FIFA WORLD CUP 2026 ARGENTINA LIONEL SCALONI FOOTBALL RELATED VIDEO Messi’s Argentina stun England in comeback to reach World Cup final UN diplomats trade cables for footballs as Argentina take on England in World Cup Latest Updates Mediator Pakistan says encouraging US, Iran to resume talks Haaretz: Government considering restrictions on flights taking voters to Israel Saudia to launch Tokyo flights in November EU’s top court upholds Spain’s amnesty law for Catalan separatists Turkish FM urges Black Sea restraint in Ukraine trip Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
