Arab News Thursday . July 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Saudi Arabia World Middle East Media Sport Saudi Arabia welcomes US decision US to remove Syria from terror blacklist Previous Pause Next Home Israel says ready to attack Iran for ‘third time if necessary’ Israel says ready to attack Iran for ‘third time if necessary’ Israel’s Defense Minister Israel Katz. (File/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/5jq7r Updated 09 July 2026 20:25 AFP July 09, 2026 16:31 Follow “The army is ready and on alert for a resumption of fighting, in order to regain air superiority and strike again... in Iran, to eliminate threats, including a third time if necessary”: Katz JERUSALEM: Israel’s Defense Minister Israel Katz on Thursday said his country was prepared to resume its military campaign against Iran if needed, vowing to do so “with even greater force.” The latest remarks came as new fighting erupted between the United States and Iran, raising fears of a return to full-scale war after an April ceasefire and a June US-Iran agreement to end hostilities. “The army is ready and on alert for a resumption of fighting, in order to regain air superiority and strike again... in Iran, to eliminate threats, including a third time if necessary,” Katz said at a military ceremony. “If we have to go back, we will go back, with even greater force,” he added. Speaking at the ceremony, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Iran had been weakened by the two previous military campaigns Israel launched against it. But he also acknowledged that the conflict was not yet over. “The Iranian axis is weaker than ever before, while Israel is stronger than ever before,” he said. “We proved that the long arm of the Israeli Air Force can reach anywhere, from Yemen to Iran. Yet we must also acknowledge that the campaign is not over.” The war began on February 28, when the United States and Israel launched an air campaign against Iran that killed the Islamic republic’s supreme leader and other senior officials. It was Israel’s second campaign against Iran, following a 12-day war in June 2025. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Iran foreign minister tells Pakistan army chief US breached Islamabad peace framework Jordan’s military intercepts 8 missiles fired from Iran Latest Updates How a push to disarm Hezbollah is deepening divisions in Lebanon and raising fears of civil war Surprise Wimbledon semifinalist Arthur Fery developed his game at Stanford University Saudi Arabia welcomes US decision US to remove Syria from terror blacklist Turkiye, Iraq to sign 12-month extension of oil pipeline deal 71 worldwide media outlets cover Rally Saudi Arabia across 129 countries Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
