Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE ART & CULTURE FASHION OFFBEAT TRAVEL ENTERTAINMENT FOOD & HEALTH THE SIX BOOKS & GAMING OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Offbeat Business & Economy Middle East Saudi Arabia World Lifestyle Saudi Arabia ups US Treasury holdings, remains Middle East’s largest Previous Pause Next Home Russian Haaland lookalike says viral video felt ‘like a dream’ Russian Haaland lookalike says viral video felt ‘like a dream’ Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 22 secondsVolume 0% Friends and family have for a few years told Russian model Anastasia Kostromina that she looked like Norwegian striker Erling Haaland. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/nvygt Updated 15 July 2026 14:43 AFP July 15, 2026 14:41 Follow Russian model Anastasia Kostromina posted a video on Instagram highlighting the resemblance to Norwegian striker Erling Haaland Haaland has been the social media sensation of the World Cup, with the Manchester City player now counting 68.8 million followers MOSCOW: Friends and family have for a few years told Russian model Anastasia Kostromina that she looked like Norwegian striker Erling Haaland, but it was not until he became the World Cup’s superstar that she decided to take that online. Earlier this month, she posted a video on Instagram highlighting the resemblance to Haaland — both in looks and mimicking some of his now-trademark mannerisms and distinctive facial expressions. It soon spiraled and gathered 6.4 million likes. “At first, I did not even know what was happening, it felt like a dream,” Kostromina told AFP in Moscow, saying she “never expected” the video to go so viral. “But I’m happy about it anyway,” the 24-year-old added. Haaland, 25, has been the social media sensation of the World Cup, with the Manchester City player now counting 68.8 million followers on social media. Haaland sparkled at the tournament scoring seven times — including a double against Brazil in their last 16 match — as Norway reached the quarter-finals only to lose 2-1 to England. Kostromina had mixed feelings when she was first told she looked like the towering male footballer — but has now embraced it. “At first, to be honest, I didn’t even understand how I could possibly resemble a male football player. But then I started to take it with a sense of humor and now I’m completely fine with it.” Naturally, she was supporting Norway in the World Cup and was sad when they lost. “I was really rooting for them and was on the edge of my seat,” she said of their last game in the competition. Russia has been mostly banned from international sport since its 2022 Ukraine offensive and did not take part in the World Cup. Kostromina — who is represented by Moscow-based Motion Model Management — hoped that Haaland will “see my video, maybe even laugh.” Follow Topics: ERLING HAALAND FOOTBALL RELATED Haaland relishing ‘special’ World Cup showdown with England Haaland scores winner to send Norway into last-16 Brazil clash Latest Updates US launches new round of strikes against Iran as escalation threatens shipping Syrian foreign minister arrives in Riyadh for talks with Saudi officials Saudi Arabia ups US Treasury holdings, remains Middle East’s largest Saudi coffee defies global price volatility as limited supply shields market Andria Tayeh appears in new Armani Beauty campaign Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN
