Arab News Tuesday . July 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Books World Saudi Arabia Saudi delegation conveys leadership’s condolences to Qatar over death of Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani Previous Pause Next Home Kuwait says Iranian attacks hit navy vessel, injuring four troops Kuwait says Iranian attacks hit navy vessel, injuring four troops Explosions were heard in Kuwait City on Tuesday. (File/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/7nsan Updated 14 July 2026 22:32 AFP July 14, 2026 16:04 Follow Air raid sirens were sounded in Bahrain on Tuesday, interior ministry said, after Manama announced it had intercepted several Iranian attacks earlier in the day KUWAIT CITY: Kuwait’s military said on Tuesday ​that one of its navy vessels was targeted in what it described ‌as Iranian attacks, ‌injuring ​four ‌armed ⁠forces ​personnel, Kuwait’s army ⁠said in a statement. The injured personnel received medical ⁠treatment and were ‌in stable ‌condition, ​the ‌statement added. Kuwait’s ‌armed forces had detected and intercepted one ballistic missile, ‌five cruise missiles and 33 ⁠drones ⁠on Tuesday’s attacks, which targeted several vital and civilian facilities, with falling debris causing material damage. Earlier, explosions were heard in Kuwait City on Tuesday, an AFP journalist reported, as the Gulf nation’s army announced for the second time in less than half an hour that it was intercepting “hostile” targets. “The General Staff of the Kuwait Armed Forces announces that any explosions are the result of the Air Defense systems intercepting hostile attacks,” the army said in its statements. Meanwhile, air raid sirens were sounded in Bahrain on Tuesday, the interior ministry said, after Manama announced it had intercepted several Iranian attacks earlier in the day. “The siren has been sounded ... Citizens and residents are urged to remain calm and head to the nearest safe place,” the interior ministry said in a statement posted on social media. Iran has launched repeated attacks on Kuwait and other US-allied Gulf countries in recent days in response to US strikes. The latest exchanges of fire have been triggered by Iran attacking commercial ships in the Strait of Hormuz. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Kuwait says three border posts, offshore oil platform attacked UAE president arrives in Kuwait for talks with emir Latest Updates Did Egypt’s culture minister’s resignation mark a turning point for copyright protection? As cyclospora illnesses surge to a record, Michigan officials eye lettuce as a possible cause Saudi delegation conveys leadership’s condolences to Qatar over death of Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani Palestinian PM meets EU officials at donor conference pledging $1bn to Gaza Israel’s parliament approves laws to enshrine exemption of ultra-Orthodox men from military service Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria EN
