Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Sport Saudi Arabia UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Previous Pause Next Home US releases video of first sea drone strike on Iran port facility US releases video of first sea drone strike on Iran port facility Previous 0 seconds of 24 secondsVolume 0% Vessels are seen anchored in Iran's Bandar Abbas along the Strait of Hormuz on June 18, 2026. (AFP file photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/rug7v Updated 13 July 2026 22:19 ARAB NEWS July 13, 2026 22:07 Follow Operation ‘degraded Iran’s ability to continue attacking commercial shipping,’ Central Command says Iran launches retaliatory strikes against military facilities in Kuwait, Bahrain, Jordan LONDON: US forces used sea drones to strike a submarine and ship maintenance facility at Iran’s Bandar Abbas naval base on Sunday, US Central Command said on Monday. Alongside a video of the operation, the command said on X: “Yesterday, using multiple one-way attack surface drones, CENTCOM forces successfully struck a submarine and ship maintenance facility in Iran. “Three Corsair unmanned surface vessels hit the port at Bandar Abbas Naval Base, marking the first time American forces have employed sea drones in combat operations.” The strikes “degraded Iran’s ability to continue attacking commercial shipping,” it said. The Corsair, built by US company Saronic Technologies, is a 24-foot-long, diesel-powered autonomous vessel capable of carrying up to 1,000 pounds of payload and traveling at speeds above 35 knots, according to the Drone Warfare website. They are part of the navy’s artificial intelligence and drone task force, which reportedly began deploying them in March. Saronic said on X that it was proud that its technology “supported this mission” and that it remained committed to delivering autonomous maritime systems “that strengthen the security of America and its allies.” Meanwhile, Iranian state media reported explosions on Monday in several locations, including Bandar Abbas, Sirik, Jask and Qeshm Island. News agency IRNA said that one person was killed and four were injured when a projectile struck a water pumping station in Mahshahr county in Khuzestan province. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said it launched retaliatory strikes against military facilities in Kuwait, Bahrain and Jordan. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Trump declares Iran blockade back, says US will charge Hormuz fees UPDATE VIDEO State TV says Iran fired ‘warning shots’ at two ships in Hormuz Latest Updates US missions in UAE suspend consular appointments over ‘security situation’ UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Hamas rejects UN official’s accusation of Gaza aid obstruction What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Ancient Interpretation of Dreams’ by Mirjam E. Kotwick Saudi Arabia says it intercepted Houthi missiles fired at south Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
