Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Business & Economy Kylian Mbappe condemns Paraguayan senator over racist remarks after World Cup match Egypt’s non-oil economy suffers deepest downturn in 3.5 years as demand collapses Previous Pause Next Home Trump expected to tell Turkiye he is ready to restore access to F-35 jets, NYT reports Trump expected to tell Turkiye he is ready to restore access to F-35 jets, NYT reports Previous 0 seconds of 29 secondsVolume 0% The report comes as Trump heads to Ankara for a NATO summit, where he is expected to meet Erdogan. (File: AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/g724r Updated 07 July 2026 12:05 REUTERS AP July 07, 2026 08:53 Follow The report comes as US president heads to Ankara for a NATO summit US President Donald ‌Trump is expected to tell Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that he is prepared to allow the country to ​rejoin the F-35 stealth fighter program, the New York Times reported on Monday, citing four senior administration officials. The report comes as Trump heads to Ankara for a NATO summit, where he is expected to meet Erdogan. The summit is set to begin on Tuesday ‌evening. According to ‌the New York Times ​report, ‌the ⁠officials differed on ​the ⁠details of how Trump would seek to work around congressional and legal restrictions, but suggested there could be an exchange of letters on the subject between the two leaders. The White House did not immediately respond to Reuters’ request for ⁠comment on the report. Turkiye’s 2019 acquisition ‌of the Russian ‌S-400 air defense system has soured ​ties with the United ‌States and hampered congressional support for Ankara. ‌In response, Washington imposed sanctions and removed Turkiye from the F-35 fighter jet program. Congress also passed a law prohibiting any sales of F-35s to Turkiye as long ‌as Ankara remained in possession of the S-400s, saying the Russian systemposes ⁠a security ⁠risk to US-made combat aircraft. The issue has remained a major point of contention between the two countries even though Turkiye enjoys warmer ties with Washington under Trump. The reported development is a sign of improving ties between the two countries, especially after Trump’s administration formally notified Congress of its intention to sell dozens of jet engines worth more than $700 million to ​Turkiye last month, according ​to a copy of the formal notification seen by Reuters. Netanyahu opposes jet sales to Turkiye But speaking Monday on the morning show “Fox & Friends,” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu urged the US not to sell F-35 fighter jets to Turkiye, saying that Erdogan “calls openly for the annihilation of Israel.” Turkiye and Israel have acrimonious relations. Erdogan frequently accuses Israel of committing genocide in its war in Gaza, triggered by the deadly Oct. 7, 2023 Hamas-led attack on southern Israel. Netanyahu said selling Turkey F-35s would “upset the power balance in the Middle East, which is ultimately guaranteed by Israeli air superiority and also, I think, by America’s posture in the Middle East.” 0 seconds of 27 secondsVolume 0% Follow Topics: US TRUMP TURKIYE ERDOGAN ARMS JETS RELATED Turkiye eyes F110 fighter jet engines as Trump comes to town Trump still eyes Turkiye jet deal despite Israel objections Latest Updates Acwa granted exclusive mandate to export Saudi green hydrogen Kylian Mbappe condemns Paraguayan senator over racist remarks after World Cup match Egypt’s non-oil economy suffers deepest downturn in 3.5 years as demand collapses Explosions heard in Damascus during Macron visit Saudi Contractors Authority says projects awarded in June 2026 exceed $8bn Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
