Arab News Friday . June 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle-East Saudi Arabia Thai Princess Bajrakitiyabha, who was known for her legal work, dies at 47 Previous Pause Next Home Israeli, Palestinian civil society meet in France as two-state solution dims Israeli, Palestinian civil society meet in France as two-state solution dims The gathering will end with an eight-point “Call for Action” urging a permanent ceasefire, a halt to settlements, Gaza reconstruction, governance reforms and stronger international backing for civil society. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/gfxmr Updated 12 June 2026 08:05 REUTERS June 12, 2026 04:00 Follow Conference marks year since UN roadmap for Palestinian state France ‌aims to keep two-state solution on agenda amid Iran war PARIS : Israeli and Palestinian civil society groups will meet in France on Friday to urge the international community not to abandon a two-state solution, as Paris seeks to keep the issue alive amid the Middle East war. The meeting, attended by foreign ministers and senior officials from dozens of countries, marks one year since the UN-backed New York Declaration, which set out a roadmap toward Palestinian statehood and prompted around a dozen countries, including France, Britain and ‌Canada, to recognize ‌a Palestinian state. “Given the current situation in the region, ​marked ‌by seemingly ⁠endless conflicts, ​too ⁠many civilian casualties and a cycle of violence, and in light of the stalled implementation of the Gaza ceasefire ... we believe this conference is now more essential and urgent than ever,” France’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson told reporters on Thursday. The gathering will end with an eight-point “Call for Action” urging a permanent ceasefire, a halt to settlements, Gaza reconstruction, governance reforms and stronger international backing for civil society. It will be delivered to the G7 leaders who ⁠meet in the French Alps from Monday. “The region continues to ‌fracture. Gaza is devastated, Israel remains under threat. ‌Settler terrorism, settlement expansion, and de facto annexation and threats ​to the Palestinian Authority continue to undermine ‌the viability of a future Palestinian state,” according to the action plan seen ‌by Reuters. “Israelis and Palestinians alike remain trapped in fear, insecurity, and trauma. We return because, as the G7 convenes in Évian, this conflict risks once again being set aside. The window for a solution remains open; but it is narrowing.” Anger in West over settler violence The conference comes ‌amid escalating violence by Israeli settlers in the occupied West Bank and underscores anger in many Western countries toward Prime ⁠Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s government, ⁠which has expanded settlements. Diplomats say that expansion is aimed at undermining prospects for a Palestinian state. A key concern is Israel’s plan to build a settlement east of Jerusalem, known as the E1 project, which would bisect the West Bank and cut it off from East Jerusalem, fragmenting territory Palestinians seek for an independent state. Britain, Canada, France and Norway announced new coordinated sanctions on Tuesday against Israeli networks involved in financing, enabling and carrying out violence in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Israel and the United States declined to attend the meeting. “The ambassador was invited but will not attend the conference, as it has nothing to do with promoting peace,” the Israeli embassy said in ​a statement. “France cannot act as a ​mediator between Israel and the Palestinians. Regarding the two-state solution, the ambassador recalls that the Palestinians have rejected proposals to establish a Palestinian state on five occasions.” Follow Topics: ISRAEL PALESTINE Latest Updates Israeli, Palestinian civil society meet in France as two-state solution dims India migrant evictions seed fear in Bangladesh border towns Thai Princess Bajrakitiyabha, who was known for her legal work, dies at 47 Israeli strikes on Lebanon’s Tyre wound 10 hospital staff: CEO Tehran says no final decision as Trump touts imminent deal Editor’s Choice BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen MIDDLE-EAST Analysis: How long can Iran’s regime fight on? EN
