Arab News Friday . July 10, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Saudi Arabia Middle East American Arab community leaders concerned by refereeing performances Previous Pause Next Home Several Palestinians injured, detained during settler attack south of Hebron Several Palestinians injured, detained during settler attack south of Hebron Palestinians carry their belongings after Israeli forces demolished their home in the village of Al-Rifayia, south of Hebron in the occupied West Bank on Thursday. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/yh3wx Updated 10 July 2026 22:24 WAFA July 10, 2026 21:12 Follow The attack comes amid a rise in assaults by Israeli settlers against Palestinian communities in the Masafer Yatta region, where repeated attacks on people, homes and agricultural land have been frequently reported in recent years HEBRON: Several Palestinians, including women and children, sustained bruises and suffered from pepper spray inhalation on Friday after Israeli settlers attacked a family in the Hawara area, east of the town of Yatta, south of Hebron. Israeli occupation forces later detained three Palestinians involved in the incident, according to local sources. Anti-settlement activist Osama Makhamreh said that a group of armed settlers attacked the family of Ibrahim Ismail Al-Jabour while they were on their land near their home in the Hawara area. FASTFACT The Ministry of Education and Higher Education condemned the demolition of a school in the West Bank, describing it as a new crime against Palestinian children and a blatant violation of international humanitarian law and international agreements that guarantee the right to education and prohibit attacks on educational institutions The settlers beat family members and sprayed pepper spray in their faces. The assault injured Ibrahim Al-Jabour along with six members of his family: Fatima, Souad, Rawaa and Rahaf Al-Jabour, as well as two children, Mustafa and Habiba Al-Jabour. All were taken to Yatta Government Hospital for treatment. Israeli troops then stormed the area, assaulted local residents and detained Qassem Ibrahim Al-Jabour, Yasser Yousef Al-Jabour and Ibrahim Omar Al-Jabour. The attack comes amid a rise in assaults by Israeli settlers against Palestinian communities in the Masafer Yatta region, where repeated attacks on people, homes and agricultural land have been frequently reported in recent years. Meanwhile, Israeli soldiers detained two Palestinians during raids across the Bethlehem governorate early on Friday. Palestinian security sources said that Israeli troops detained Sami Dawoud Al-Zeir, head of the Janata Municipality east of Bethlehem, and Adel Dawoud Al-Asakra, 49, from Al-Asakra area, after raiding and searching their homes. Israeli forces also entered the nearby communities of Beit Falouh, Rafida, Abu Njeim, Al-Ubeidiya, al-Shawawra, Dar Salah and the Dheisheh refugee camp, but no additional detentions were reported. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA PALESTINE GAZA USA WEST BANK RELATED Israeli settlers demolish Palestinian school in occupied West Bank, Education Ministry says Dozens of Israeli settlers storm Al-Aqsa compound in walled Jerusalem Latest Updates KSrelief signs deal with Muslim World League Foundation stone for Islamic complex laid in Mauritania American Arab community leaders concerned by refereeing performances Students abducted in May by Muslim militants in Nigeria are rescued, government says Brutal heat wave forecast for western US this weekend Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
