Arab News Tuesday . June 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle-East Israel one of the most aggressive as world conflicts hit peak in 2025: report Previous Pause Next Home Southern Lebanon ‘Hezbollah kill zone,’ Israel says Southern Lebanon ‘Hezbollah kill zone,’ Israel says Previous 0 seconds of 28 secondsVolume 0% Israeli rmy chief of staff Eyal Zamir. (AFP/File) Next Short Url https://arab.news/ggfru Updated 16 April 2026 13:17 AFP April 16, 2026 06:45 Follow Since the start of its war with Hezbollah on March 2 Israel had killed 91 healthcare workers BEIRUT: Israel declared southern Lebanon a “Hezbollah kill zone” on Wednesday, a day after historic peace talks between the two countries in Washington. The zone would extend from the border with Israel north to the Litani River, army chief of staff Eyal Zamir said. Meanwhile Israel killed at least three paramedics trying to rescue people injured in an earlier strike in the southern town of Mayfadun. The deadly attack was a “flagrant crime, which reflects the Israeli enemy’s determination to prevent paramedics from performing their life-saving work by any means,” the Health Ministry in Beirut said. Since the start of its war with Hezbollah on March 2 Israel had killed 91 healthcare workers, the ministry said. The violence has killed more than 2,100 Lebanese people overall. New Israeli strikes on Wednesday hit two vehicles on the coastal highway about 20 km south of Beirut, outside Hezbollah’s traditional strongholds. Firefighters extinguished a blaze in one van with as rescue workers recovered human remains from the wreckage. Hezbollah MP Hassan Fadlallah said the militant group's fighters were “preventing enemy soldiers from seizing control” of the key southern town of Bint Jbeil, 5 km north of the border. Wednesday’s attacks came a day after Lebanon and Israel held their first direct talks in decades in Washington, and agreed to hold further direct negotiations. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON RELATED UN experts warn Israeli destruction in Lebanon consistent with pattern of genocide in Gaza UPDATE VIDEO Israel and Lebanon agree to 10-day ceasefire in push for permanent peace deal Latest Updates Brazil’s Neymar to continue World Cup prep after MRI shows ‘progress’ Israel one of the most aggressive as world conflicts hit peak in 2025: report Japan ‘pray’ on Endo fitness for World Cup opener Xi and Kim push for greater ties between China and North Korea Attorneys urge release of mosque leader, saying he’s been denied diabetes care in ICE custody Editor’s Choice MIDDLE-EAST How decades of instability, dependence on Iranian gas hollowed out Iraq’s power sector MIDDLE-EAST Frankly Speaking: US media slammed for showing Iran as victor of war MIDDLE-EAST Analysis: What happens next in Lebanon as Hezbollah rejects ceasefire with Israel? EN
