Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Sport Lifestyle Middle East Norwegian Air wears BA’s colors for a day after World Cup social media wager Previous Pause Next Home Oman says 23 rescued, one missing after vessel attacked off coast Oman says 23 rescued, one missing after vessel attacked off coast Vessels at the Strait of Hormuz, as seen from Musandam,Oman, on July 12. (REUTERS) Short Url https://arab.news/cuve2 Updated 12 July 2026 16:15 AFP July 12, 2026 12:26 Follow Crew members were on commercial ship when struck off Oman’s eastern coast Search is underway for one missing, says sultanate’s Maritime Security Center MUSCAT: Oman said Sunday it had rescued 23 crew members from a commercial ship while one was missing after the vessel was struck off the Gulf sultanate's eastern coast. "Twenty-three crew members were rescued and provided with necessary medical care. Search operations are continuing for one crew member who remains missing," Oman's Maritime Security Center said in a statement. The agency said it had received a distress call from the Cypriot-flagged GFS Galaxy 4.4 nautical miles off the coast of Musandam Governorate. The signal came after the vessel was struck during the latest exchanges of fire between Iran and the United States. US Central Command said the ship had been disabled by fire and damage to its engine room, accusing Tehran of attacking it. Earlier, India's foreign ministry said of 11 Indian nationals on board, 10 had been rescued, adding that one was missing. British maritime agency UKMTO said the crew had abandoned ship and were on a lifeboat, around 17 kilometres (10 miles) east of Oman. The attack came as Tehran announced it was closing the Strait of Hormuz and launched missiles and drones at its Gulf neighbours in retaliation for new US strikes. The Indian foreign ministry said the attacks on commercial shipping in the region were "deeply worrisome". "The targeting of commercial shipping and civilian infrastructure in the region must end," it said. "Free and unimpeded navigation... through the international waterways in the region, in keeping with international law, must be restored at the earliest." The exchange of fire threatens an interim agreement aimed at ending the Middle East war, which began on February 28 with US-Israeli strikes on Iran, including one that killed former supreme leader Ali Khamenei. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN OMAN STRAIT OF HORMUZ RELATED Overnight US strikes on Iran kill one soldier: Iranian media Gulf states condemn Iran's latest attacks on the region Latest Updates Oman says 23 rescued, one missing after vessel attacked off coast Saudi teams represent Kingdom at leading Science Olympiads Israeli attacks in Gaza kill five people, including a girl, say medics Closing Bell: Saudi main index rises to close at 10,818 Overnight US strikes on Iran kill one soldier: Iranian media Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
