Arab News Friday . June 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Offbeat World Sport Business & Economy Pope urges migrants to integrate during Canary Islands visit Previous Pause Next Home Hezbollah confident any US-Iran deal will include Lebanon, politician says Hezbollah confident any US-Iran deal will include Lebanon, politician says Above, Ghada Hussein mourns over the grave of her son Mohammed Tufayli, a Hezbollah fighter, at a temporary cemetery in the southern coastal Lebanese city of Sidon on June 11, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/8hh68 Updated 12 June 2026 15:08 REUTERS June 12, 2026 11:48 Follow Hezbollah entered the regional conflict in support of Tehran on March 2 Iranian officials have repeatedly insisted on an end to fighting in Lebanon ‌as part ‌of any wider agreement BEIRUT: Hezbollah is confident that ‌Iran will insist on Lebanon being included in a deal with the United States, a leading Hezbollah politician said on Friday, as hopes grew for an agreement between Tehran and Washington. Hezbollah, founded by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards in 1982, entered the regional conflict in support of Tehran on March 2, opening fire at Israel and prompting an Israeli offensive that has killed thousands of people in Lebanon. Iranian officials have repeatedly insisted on an end to fighting in Lebanon ‌as part ‌of any wider agreement. “If the agreement ‌happens, ⁠we have complete confidence ⁠in the Islamic Republic … we have confidence that it will insist on any agreement including the file of Lebanon,” Hassan Fadlallah, a Hezbollah politician, said in an excerpt of a speech broadcast by the group’s Al-Manar TV. Israeli forces have occupied swathes of southern Lebanon, where Lebanon’s National News ⁠Agency reported new Israeli airstrikes in several towns ‌and villages on Friday. A Western ‌source said a memorandum between the United States and Iran ‌to halt the war in the Gulf could be ‌signed as soon as Sunday. The source said that language in the memorandum was still being finalized and Iran was sticking to its position that the deal must also end fighting in ‌Lebanon. Last week, Mohsen Rezaei, an adviser to Iran’s supreme leader, said Hezbollah had “made great ⁠sacrifices” in ⁠the war and that Lebanon “will be an inseparable part of any agreement and any ceasefire,” in comments reported by the semi-official Mehr news agency. The war in Lebanon has continued despite several ceasefires announced by the United States, which has been mediating talks between the Lebanese and Israeli governments. Hezbollah is not a party to the talks and has demanded the Lebanese government quit the process. Hezbollah rejected a US-backed plan declared last week that would be contingent on the group ceasing fire and withdrawing its fighters from southern Lebanon. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON HEZBOLLAH LEBANON RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Iran state media says Tehran would not cede control of Hormuz under draft US deal US and Iran close to signing peace deal: Axios Latest Updates Kenya mourns schoolgirls killed in suspected dorm arson attack Saudi Arabia, Indonesia in talks to deepen tourism cooperation Pope urges migrants to integrate during Canary Islands visit Timmy, Germany’s humpback whale, likely lived for only 5 days after controversial rescue effort Iran-linked group claims hack of FBI drones, threatens World Cup: monitor Editor’s Choice BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen MIDDLE EAST Analysis: How long can Iran’s regime fight on? EN
