Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Business & Economy Sport World Lifestyle Trump lands in Ankara for NATO summit Israel confirms next round of talks with Lebanon to be held in Rome Previous Pause Next Home Bomb attacks wound 18 in Damascus as Macron visits Bomb attacks wound 18 in Damascus as Macron visits Previous 0 seconds of 26 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Vehicles drive through the Seven Fountains Square in front of the Central Bank of Syria building, in Damascus on July 6, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/mhs9w Updated 07 July 2026 14:25 REUTERS ARAB NEWS July 07, 2026 10:28 Follow DAMASCUS: Bombs exploded near the hotel where Emmanuel Macron was staying in Syria on Tuesday, a security source said, but the French president did not hear the explosions, the Elysee said, and he met Syrian President Ahmed al-Sharaa soon afterwards. Macron is said to be safe and unharmed and is continuing with his visit. 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% Eighteen people were injured including four police, according to the Syrian state news agency. Security Forces detected two explosive devices during field operations and specialized units initiated the necessary measures to dismantle them. The devices blew up while preparations to dismantle them were underway. 0 seconds of 15 secondsVolume 0% Preliminary inspection revealed that the first device was placed inside a vehicle parked by the roadside, while the second was inside a trash bin. Investigations are ongoing to uncover the circumstances of the attack and identify those involved. The blasts underscore the major security challenges in Syria, where Macron is the first head of state of a European Union country to visit since rebels led by Sharaa toppled Bashar Assad in 2024. 0 seconds of 15 secondsVolume 0% A witness heard explosions in the vicinity and saw smoke rising. Roads were sealed off and security measures were implemented, the security source said. The Elysee said the blasts were not audible from the presidential motorcade and a Reuters journalist with the press group accompanying Macron did not hear the blast or see any commotion during the French president's morning events. State television later reported that Macron and Sharaa were meeting at the Syrian Presidential Palace. Macron’s visit has highlighted Syria’s geopolitical transformation under Sharaa, a former al Qaeda commander who has established close ties with Western and Middle Eastern powers that shunned Assad, as he seeks to rebuild a country shattered by 13 years of war. 0 seconds of 50 secondsVolume 0% During the Syrian conflict, a range of militant groups including Islamic State gained a foothold in the country. Sharaa, a member of Syria’s Sunni Muslim majority, has pledged to build an inclusive new order in Syria since ending more than five decades of iron-fisted rule by the Assad family. But his promise has been tested by bouts of violence pitting pro-government forces against members of religious and ethnic minority groups, with many hundreds killed last year. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD SYRIA RELATED National Defense University boosts training and specialization: Syrian defense minister Austrian court sentences Assad-era Syrian torturers to 8 years in jail Latest Updates Baha seasonal initiative supports local producers Saudi Arabia jumps to 13th place globally in attracting FDI Trump lands in Ankara for NATO summit Israel confirms next round of talks with Lebanon to be held in Rome Why Squatwolf founders chose to ‘design for the region’ amid global athleisure boom Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
