Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Sport Middle East Earth reaches aphelion, marking farthest point from Sun in annual orbit Previous Pause Next Home Iran fires missiles at commercial ships in Strait of Hormuz, Axios reports Iran fires missiles at commercial ships in Strait of Hormuz, Axios reports Previous UPDATE 1 / 2 This photo taken on May 8, 2026, shows the crude oil tanker Odessa — carrying UAE crude after passing through the Strait of Hormuz with its Automatic Identification System transponder turned off — being guided by tugboats as it navigates the waters at Daesan port in Seosan, South Korea. (Reuters/File Photo) UPDATE 2 / 2 Crude oil tanker Odessa, carrying UAE crude, arrives at Daesan port in Seosan, South Korea on May 8, 2026, after passing unharmed through the Strait of Hormuz. (Reuters/File Photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/mrzgj Updated 07 July 2026 06:56 REUTERS July 07, 2026 05:54 Follow Two commercial ships suffered significant damage but no casualties, Axios reports UKMTO says tanker hit by unidentified projectile east of Oman’s Limah, fire reported Iran’s Revolutionary Guards fired at least two missiles at commercial ships transiting through the Strait of Hormuz on Monday night, Axios reported, citing two US officials. Two commercial ships suffered significant damage but had no casualties, the report said, citing a US official. Separately, Britain’s maritime security agency said a tanker caught fire after being hit by an unknown projectile east of Oman’s Limah early on Tuesday. The United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations agency (UKMTO) said early ‌on Tuesday ‌that the tanker was struck on its port side while traveling ​southbound ‌about ⁠8 ​nautical miles (15 ⁠km) east of Limah, causing a fire. No casualties or environmental impact had been reported. Reuters could not immediately verify the Axios report or determine whether the ships described in that report included the tanker cited in the UKMTO advisory. Iranian state television said a liquified natural gas tanker was attacked in Strait of Hormuz off Oman after ignoring warnings, AP reported. US Central Command did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The reports underscored the risks to shipping around the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow waterway between Iran and Oman through which about a fifth of global oil consumption passes. Commercial vessels have come under ⁠attack during the war that began with US-Israeli strikes on Iran, despite ‌an interim agreement that included safe-passage provisions. Indirect US-Iran talks ‌ended last week without any public sign of headway toward a ​lasting peace, despite a 60-day ceasefire intended ‌to create space for diplomacy following the US and Israeli strikes that triggered the conflict. President ‌Donald Trump said on Monday the US would either reach a deal with Iran or “finish the job,” renewing his threat of military action as Tehran projects defiance following the funeral of former Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. ‘Ready to fire at you’ Iran’s Revolutionary Guards warned ships via maritime radio over the weekend that “our missiles ‌and drones are ready to fire at you,” the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, quoting from a recording it obtained. One of the ⁠vessels under attack ⁠appeared to be Al Rekayyat, a liquefied natural gas tanker owned and managed by Nakilat, also known as Qatar Gas Transport Company Ltd, which operates one of the world’s largest LNG shipping fleets, the WSJ said, adding that the ship had been hit on the port side, at the top of the engine room. “Engine room fire and full of smoke. Unable to assess further damage. All crew are safe and mustered on the starboard side,” the WSJ quoted from a recording. The vessel was at the mouth of the strait, in the Gulf of Oman, when it was attacked, the WSJ reported. Nakilat, QatarEnergy and Qatar’s International Media Office did not immediately respond to requests for comment sent outside normal business hours. Investors have been keeping a ​close eye on talks between the US and ​Iran over the fate of shipping through the Strait of Hormuz while tracking the recovery in Gulf oil exports. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED VIDEO Trump says there will either be a deal with Iran or US will ‘finish the job’ UPDATE VIDEO Iranian mourners call for vengeance on Trump during Khamenei funeral procession Latest Updates UN deems Israel’s detention of Gaza doctor ‘arbitrary’ as health fears mount NATO allies seek to win over Trump after Iran ire Earth reaches aphelion, marking farthest point from Sun in annual orbit Body of late supreme leader Ali Khamenei arrives in Qom ahead of procession International Conference on Legal and Sharia Studies concludes with call for stronger, modern legislation Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
