Arab News Friday . July 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Lifestyle Sport Middle East Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? Argentina’s Colapinto more nervous about World Cup final than F1 race Previous Pause Next Home US forces launch new strikes against Iran: CENTCOM US forces launch new strikes against Iran: CENTCOM Previous 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE The US military said on Friday that it had destroyed the Chabahar Shahid Kalantari Port surveillance tower in Iran on Thursday. (X/@PeteHegseth) Next Short Url https://arab.news/wvf69 Updated 17 July 2026 23:21 AGENCIES July 17, 2026 17:53 Follow CENTCOM said strikes were designed to ‘continue degrading Iranian military capabilities’ IRGC targeted a Thai-flagged vessel in Strait of Hormuz on Friday WASHINGTON: US forces launched strikes against Iran for a seventh night in a row on Friday, the US military said. US Central Command, in a post on X, said the strikes, which began at 1900 GMT, were designed to “continue degrading Iranian military capabilities.” The strikes came after CENTCOM said Friday that it had destroyed the Chabahar Shahid Kalantari Port surveillance tower in Iran on Thursday. US Central Command said in a post on X that the tower was part of a maritime surveillance network along Iran’s Gulf of Oman coastline used by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to track and target commercial vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) targeted a Thai-flagged vessel in the Strait of Hormuz on Friday, Iran’s Tasnim news agency said. Tasnim said the ship ignored warnings and tried to pass through the strait without seeking permission from the IRGC. Mohsen Rezaei, an advisor to Iran's supreme leader, was later quoted as saying that if the US seized any points in Iran, “we may enter an offensive war, instead of a defensive one.” He added: “If US strikes continue for several more days, we will move into a phase of full-scale offensive operations.” Meanwhile, the IRGC also said on Friday they had attacked a US special operations command center at ​Al-Tanf in Syria in retaliation for the killing of Iranian soldiers in Iranshahr, state media reported. Reuters could not independently verify the claim, and there was no immediate comment from the Syrian government or the ‌US military. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said Friday that they had targeted US radar systems and military aircraft in Qatar to “punish the aggressor” following overnight US strikes on Iran. One ​of Kuwait’s power generation and water desalination ‌stations ‌was ​hit ‌in ⁠an ​Iranian attack, causing ⁠damage to facilities, a fire ⁠and ‌the ‌disruption ​of a large ‌number ‌of electricity generation units, ‌Kuwait’s Ministry of Electricity, ⁠Water and ⁠Renewable Energy said on Friday. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Friday they had struck US military aircraft stationed in Jordan with ballistic missiles and drones in retaliation for overnight US strikes. In a statement, they claimed to have destroyed “several US refueling aircraft and fighter jets” and caused “serious damage to many more.” They also called on Jordanians to target “the interests of the aggressive and anti-Islamic Americans” in their country. * With Reuters and AFP Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US RELATED UPDATE Iran targets US bases in Iraq, Jordan, Oman and Syria UPDATE VIDEO US strikes Iran for sixth straight night as Tehran retaliates against US allies Latest Updates Practice session opens round 2 of Saudi Toyota Championship Hill Climb Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? Argentina’s Colapinto more nervous about World Cup final than F1 race Israeli demolition crushes Palestinian family’s dream home EU welcomes first session of Syrian People’s Assembly as ‘positive step’ Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
