Arab News Saturday . June 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East Business & Economy World Woman seriously injured in shark attack at Sydney beach Previous Pause Next Home Hezbollah says it confronted Israeli troops advancing in south Lebanon Hezbollah says it confronted Israeli troops advancing in south Lebanon Previous 1 / 2 Ghada Hussein (C) mourns over the grave of her son Mohammed Tufayli, a Hezbollah fighter who was killed during the ongoing war, at a temporary cemetery in the southern coastal Lebanese city of Sidon on June 11, 2026. (AFP) 2 / 2 Smoke rises from the site of an Israeli airstrike that targeted the southern Lebanese city of Nabatieh on June 12, 2026. Hezbollah said on June 12 that its fighters had confronted Israeli forces advancing towards a southern Lebanese town, as Israel pressed on with its strikes in Lebanon. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/82eep Updated 13 June 2026 08:17 AFP June 12, 2026 22:30 Follow Hezbollah said its rocket barrages forced Israeli troops to retreat from Majdal Zoun The group also claimed other attacks on Israeli troops in southern Lebanon BEIRUT: Hezbollah said on Friday its fighters had confronted Israeli forces advancing toward a southern Lebanese town, as Israel pressed on with its strikes in Lebanon. In a statement, Hezbollah said its fighters first targeted Israeli troops advancing toward Majdal Zoun, around five kilometers (three miles) from the western side of the border, on Thursday evening “with repeated rocket barrages, forcing them to retreat.” It then said it engaged with an advancing force there on Friday “engaging them with light and medium weapons and rockets.” The group also claimed other attacks on Israeli troops in southern Lebanon. The Israeli military meanwhile issued an evacuation warning for three southern Lebanese villages. Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency reported a series of strikes across the south, including on areas not included in the Israeli warning. The NNA later reported large explosions and artillery shelling near the Ali Taher hills, which overlook the southern city of Nabatieh. An aid convoy organized by the Vatican envoy to Lebanon that was headed for southern Christian villages, whose residents remained despite the conflict, was stopped by the Israeli military and forced to change course, a convoy member told AFP on Friday. Lebanon was dragged into the Middle East war on March 2, when Hezbollah fired rockets at Israel in retaliation for the killing of Iran’s supreme leader Ali Khamenei. Israel has since carried out a massive campaign of strikes and a ground invasion that have killed more than 3,700 people in Lebanon, while occupying a large chunk of the country’s south. An April ceasefire in Lebanon was never observed, and the fighting has continued despite a new conditional truce deal announced last week after Lebanese-Israeli talks in Washington. Hezbollah rejected the conditional agreement, which requires it to stop launching attacks but makes no mention of Israel having to cease attacks or withdraw its troops from Lebanon. Iran insists that Lebanon must be part of any agreement to end the wider Middle East war. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON HEZBOLLAH ISRAEL RELATED Hezbollah confident any US-Iran deal will include Lebanon, politician says SPECIAL GRAPHIC Analysis: What happens next in Lebanon as Hezbollah rejects ceasefire with Israel? Latest Updates After epic comeback, Knicks head to San Antonio on brink of NBA title Judge rejects bid to halt removal of Trump’s name from Kennedy Center Woman seriously injured in shark attack at Sydney beach US opens its home World Cup with a dynamic 4-1 victory over Paraguay, sparked by Balogun’s 2 goals Assad general wanted for human rights violations arrested Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen EN
