Arab News Wednesday . July 01, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Sport Lifestyle 4 people die in Mexico City during celebrations after World Cup win Previous Pause Next Home Iran says to use frozen funds in Qatar to buy ‘required goods’ Iran says to use frozen funds in Qatar to buy ‘required goods’ People drive past a banner with a picture of Iran's late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran on Wednesday. (Via Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/nt22e Updated 01 July 2026 23:54 AFP July 01, 2026 19:12 Follow Deputy foreign minister says after talks in Doha, Tehran would use some of its frozen assets in Qatar to purchase goods needed by the country Washington agreed to make available Iran’s frozen assets as part of MoU signed between the two sides to end the conflict TEHRAN: Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi said Wednesday that Tehran would use some of its frozen assets in Qatar to purchase goods needed by the country following talks in Doha. Under the memorandum of understanding that halted the war between Iran and the United States, Washington agreed to make available Iran’s frozen or restricted assets as part of the agreement’s implementation. It remains unclear how the mechanism for releasing and using the funds would work, or when it would take effect. “During the meetings with Qatari officials, including the Central Bank, a number of issues related to the expenditure of part of the initial six billion dollars were reviewed,” Gharibabadi said, according to the IRNA state news agency. “It was agreed that, based on the needs communicated by our country, the required goods would be purchased and made available to Iran.” The amount Gharibabadi mentioned refers to part of Iranian oil revenues transferred from South Korea to restricted accounts in Qatar since 2023. Last month, Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Esmaeil Baqaei said Tehran alone would decide how to use the released assets, “in whatever way is most beneficial and favorable to the country.” He also said the funds would “be available for Iran to freely use as it sees fit to supply the goods that the country needs.” US Vice President JD Vance had said in June that the assets had not yet been unfrozen under the agreement, but if they were, the US and Qatar “have approval over that process.” He also suggested the money would be used to purchase US goods, including agricultural products such as soybeans. Iran’s chief negotiator Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf rejected that characterization on Tuesday, saying $12 billion of the country’s $24 billion in frozen assets “are to be given” to Iran’s Central Bank “so that it can purchase any goods it needs, at any price and in any currency worldwide.” Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Trump hails ‘very good meetings’ as indirect Iran talks in Qatar conclude UPDATE US and Iran enter technical talks to secure peace deal, restart shipping Latest Updates Iran says to use frozen funds in Qatar to buy ‘required goods’ Bayern Munich sign Morocco star Ismael Saibari from PSV for reported $63m 4 people die in Mexico City during celebrations after World Cup win China ethnic unity law comes into force despite overseas criticism Alibaba to pay US $600m to settle allegations it allowed illegal drug and equipment sales Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
