Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia Sport World UK urges FIFA to investigate Argentina over Falklands banner at World Cup Previous Pause Next Home ‘Peace never dies’: Pakistan urges US, Iran to shun hostilities and resume talks ‘Peace never dies’: Pakistan urges US, Iran to shun hostilities and resume talks Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 27 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Smoke rises from an explosion at an unknown location, during what US Central Command says are strikes on Iran, in this screen grab taken from a handout video released on July 15, 2026. (US Central Command via Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/rkygc Updated 16 July 2026 13:36 WASEEM ABBASI July 16, 2026 13:00 Follow Pakistan emerged as a key intermediary by facilitating contacts between senior US and Iranian officials that paved the way for last month’s interim peace agreement ISLAMABAD: Pakistan on Thursday urged the United States and Iran to shun renewed attacks against each other and resume talks to end their war, saying that “peace never dies” and all conflicts are resolved at the negotiation tables. The statement came after Iran launched missile and drone attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait and Jordan, following an expanded US military campaign with strikes deeper inside Iran and tightening of a naval blockade around the Islamic republic this week that marked another sharp escalation in the conflict centered on the Strait of Hormuz. Pakistan emerged as a key intermediary by facilitating contacts between senior US and Iranian officials that paved the way for last month’s interim peace agreement, called the Islamabad Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that included a 60-day ceasefire, reopening of Hormuz, and a timetable for a final deal on the war and Iran’s nuclear program. Speaking at a weekly press briefing, Pakistani foreign office spokesman Tahir Andrabi reiterated Pakistan’s call on all parties to exercise maximum restraint and refrain from any actions that could further undermine regional peace, dispelling reports that Islamabad had distanced itself from the mediation process. “The logic of escalation is prevailing right now. But we hope that this logic of escalation will be overcome by the rationality for peace and dialogue. Peace process never dies. It can be held in a back burner but it stays,” he said. “The logic of Islamabad MoU still exists. And whenever parties will feel that their logic of escalation is exhausted, the return to peace will be through a template which is provided in the Islamabad MoU.” The US-Iran retaliatory attacks over the strategic Hormuz shipping route have again sent global oil prices soaring and led to concerns of spikes in inflation even in nations far from the conflict. The key oil and gas supply artery, which Iran insists it controls, is central to the rekindled fighting that has entered its sixth day despite the preliminary deal in June aiming to end the war. “Many countries, particularly those in the Global South, are being adversely affected by situation in the Strait of Hormuz. Pakistan recognizes the urgent need to address the impact of the current situation on global energy supplies and other economic commodities, including trade and food security,” Andrabi said. “We express the hope for an early normalization of the situation in the Strait of Hormuz and underscore the importance of ensuring the continued safety, security, and freedom of maritime navigation.” There have been “challenges” to the US-Iran interim peace deal, but Islamabad is still engaged with the parties to help end hostilities, according to Andrabi. “While the implementation of MoU is facing challenges, Pakistan will continue to encourage all sides to end violence and resume technical-level talks in accordance with the MoU,” he said. • This article also appears on Arab News Pakistan Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US PAKISTAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO US expands attacks deeper into Iran as Tehran retaliates against Jordan, Bahrain and Kuwait VIDEO Hegseth announces new policy to test US troops for low testosterone Latest Updates Poland charges Ukrainian with vandalizing war memorials to stir ethnic tensions Mediator Pakistan says encouraging US, Iran to resume talks Saudi producer prices jump 7.5% in May on manufacturing gains: GASTAT UK urges FIFA to investigate Argentina over Falklands banner at World Cup Vance says some in Israeli government sought to sway US on Iran deal Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
