Arab News Wednesday . July 08, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Business & Economy Funeral processions begin in Najaf for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei Previous Pause Next Home Widespread condemnation of latest Iranian attacks Widespread condemnation of latest Iranian attacks UPDATE Above, Kuwaiti City on the background on April 23, 2024. The Kuwaiti army said air defenses were confronting “hostile” missile and drone attacks. (AFP file photo) Short Url https://arab.news/bsnwe Updated 08 July 2026 14:51 ARAB NEWS July 08, 2026 10:20 Follow Doha emphasizes necessity of “continuing on the path of dialogue and diplomacy, de-escalation’ DUBAI: The Bahraini Defence Force on Wednesday said it intercepted and destroyed several Iranian missiles and drones targeting civilian areas, accusing Tehran of continuing hostile attacks against the kingdom. It urged the public to avoid and report any suspicious debris from the strikes, saying specialized military engineering teams are handling unexploded remnants. The force added that all units remain on high alert and condemned the attacks as a violation of international humanitarian law. Kuwati condemned the latest Iranian attack, describing Tehran’s military actions a continuation of “brazen aggressions at a time when regional and international efforts aimed at de-escalation are underway” which “undermined efforts to reduce tensions.” The security of the State of Kuwait, its sovereignty, and the safety of its citizens and residents on its soil are a red line that cannot be crossed, statement from the country’s foreign ministry said. Jordan issued a similar condemnation on “the brutal Iranian attacks” against Kuwait, describing them “a flagrant violation of Kuwait’s sovereignty, a threat to its security and stability and the safety of its territories, a dangerous escalation, and a blatant breach of international law and the United Nations Charter.” Qatar also condemned the repeated Iranian attacks on Bahrain and Kuwait. In a statement from its foreign affairs ministry, Doha emphasized the “necessity of sparing the region the consequences of these unjustified attacks, continuing on the path of dialogue and diplomacy, de-escalation, and building on the gains achieved within the framework of the memorandum of understanding, in a manner that contributes to consolidating security and stability at both the regional and international levels.” Egypt has also condemned the repeated Iranian attacks on Kuwait, Bahrain and other Gulf states, and described Tehran’s actions “a blatant violation of their sovereignty, a serious threat to the security and stability of the Gulf region, and an unacceptable escalation that would increase tensions in the region.” “Egypt emphasizes its full rejection of all actions that infringe upon the security and sovereignty of sisterly nations or threaten the security and stability of the region,” its foreign affairs ministry said in a statement, and renewed its call for restraint and de-escalation in order to preserve regional security and safeguard peace and stability. Oman also condemned the Iranian attacks on the oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, saying “the military escalation in the region threatens its security and martime safety” adding they reject any actions that endanger civilian and commercial vessels. The Sultanate also called for full implementation of the agreements signed between the parties and a de-escalation of tensions. Lebanese president Joseph Aoun also condemned the attacks against Bahrain and Kuwait, renewed his call for restraint, de-escalation and “for prioritizing the language of dialogue and diplomacy, out of concern for the security of the region, its stability, and the safety of its peoples.” The Islamic Revolutionary Guard ​Corps said it carried out a joint missile and drone operation against Ali Al Salem Air Base in Kuwait, and other key US military sites in Bahrain in retaliation for US military strikes in Iran. US early on Wednesday launched a wave of airstrikes on Iran in response to attacks on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz. Anwar Gargash, the diplomatic adviser to the UAE president, have commented that “Iran’s attacks on Qatari and Saudi commercial tankers in the Strait of Hormuz, and the repeated aggression against our sisterly Bahrain and Kuwait, are a clear indicator that Tehran remains incapable of committing to the requirements of de-escalation and turning the page on war.” “The Gulf Arab states cannot remain a target for Iran’s wavering between the logic of escalation and the path of rationality, stability, and peace,” Gargash posted on social media. China warns US, Iran against ‘reigniting’ war, urges dialogue Meanwhile China denounced on Wednesday a sharp escalation in hostilies in the Middle East after the United States struck dozens of targets in Iran, with Beijing’s foreign ministry warning both sides against “reigniting” the war in the Middle East. “Reigniting the war is not in the interests of either side, and military means cannot solve the fundamental problems,” foreign spokesperson Mao Ning told a news conference, when asked about the strikes. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Iran targets sites in Bahrain, Kuwait after wave of US strikes UPDATE VIDEO New attacks on Iran were absolutely necessary, NATO chief says Latest Updates Saudi Tomoh program supports over 3k fast-growing firms, helps 40 list on Nomu Saudi FM meets counterpart in Oman to discuss regional developments Audi Capital joins LeadCrest Capital Partners in sale-leaseback acquisition of Italian ateliers de couture Israeli strike kills World Cup screening organizer in Gaza just before kickoff Kingdom highlights responsible AI governance in Geneva talks Editor’s Choice WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader EN
