Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Food & Health Saudi Arabia Sport Middle East World Spaniard Martin coaches outsiders Fes to Moroccan glory Previous Pause Next Home US revokes temporary sanctions waiver on Iranian oil US revokes temporary sanctions waiver on Iranian oil Crude oil tanker Odessa, carrying UAE crude after passing through the Strait of Hormuz with its Automatic Identification System transponder turned off, navigates the waters at Daesan port, where it is expected to discharge crude oil, in South Korea, May 8, 2026. (Reuters/File) Short Url https://arab.news/9khzb Updated 07 July 2026 22:39 AFP July 07, 2026 22:36 Follow Washington’s move comes after three tankers including a Qatari LNG vessel were struck The official maintained: “Our negotiators continue to work in good faith toward a final deal“ WASHINGTON: The US Treasury Department on Tuesday revoked a license that temporarily lifted oil sanctions on Iran, calling Tehran’s actions in the Strait of Hormuz “wholly unacceptable.” “Iran’s actions in the Strait were wholly unacceptable to the United States and will be met with consequences,” a US official told AFP, after attacks on tankers in the key waterway. The waiver announced in June had originally allowed the Islamic republic to produce, sell and deliver crude oil and related products through August 21. Washington’s move comes after three tankers including a Qatari LNG vessel were struck within hours in the Strait of Hormuz, according to maritime monitors and Qatar. Peace mediator Doha denounced an “unacceptable” Iranian attack. The developments have revived concerns about freedom of navigation after Iran lifted its blockade of the waterway following a fragile ceasefire with the United States. The US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Tuesday that its memorandum of understanding with Iran “is entirely performance-based,” warning that Tehran will only see benefits if it shows “good behavior.” But the official maintained: “Our negotiators continue to work in good faith toward a final deal.” The future of Hormuz, the main route for Gulf energy exports, has been a sticking point during negotiations between Tehran and Washington to permanently end the conflict that began in late February. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRANIAN OIL US TREASURY DEPARTMENT RELATED Iran envoy says friendly nations to get ‘special’ Hormuz fee treatment Iran warns oil tankers to use approved routes in Strait of Hormuz or face a ‘forceful response’ Latest Updates AP-NORC poll: About 3 in 10 US adults believe Israel has committed genocide against Palestinians Omani space technology firm wins award at UN AI event in Geneva FIFA praises World Cup referee who Trump claimed was ‘suspect’ after red card for Balogun Kingdom condemns Iran for targeting Saudi and Qatari tankers Spaniard Martin coaches outsiders Fes to Moroccan glory Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
