Arab News Sunday . June 21, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA NEWS THE PLACE THE SPACE WHO'S WHO KSA TODAY GREEN & BLUE MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Middle East Makkah exhibition displays historic marble tiles from Grand Mosque Previous Pause Next Home Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye back US-Iran talks at Cairo meeting Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye back US-Iran talks at Cairo meeting Previous 1 / 4 Foreign ministers from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye reaffirmed their support for ongoing negotiations between the United States and Iran during a meeting in Cairo on Sunday. (X/@KSAMOFA) 2 / 4 Foreign ministers from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye reaffirmed their support for ongoing negotiations between the United States and Iran during a meeting in Cairo on Sunday. (X/@KSAMOFA) 3 / 4 Foreign ministers from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye reaffirmed their support for ongoing negotiations between the United States and Iran during a meeting in Cairo on Sunday. (X/@KSAMOFA) 4 / 4 Foreign ministers from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye reaffirmed their support for ongoing negotiations between the United States and Iran during a meeting in Cairo on Sunday. (X/@KSAMOFA) Next Short Url https://arab.news/p4gfk Updated 21 June 2026 18:32 ARAB NEWS June 21, 2026 17:55 Follow Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan joined his counterparts in welcoming US-Iran talks in Switzerland CAIRO: Foreign ministers from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye reaffirmed their support for negotiations between the US and Iran during a meeting in Cairo on Sunday aimed at addressing regional tensions and promoting diplomatic efforts. Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan joined Pakistani Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mohammad Ishaq Dar, Egyptian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty and Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan for the fourth meeting of the four-country consultation mechanism. According to the Saudi Foreign Ministry, the ministers reviewed the latest regional developments and efforts to reduce tensions, including Pakistan’s mediation role following the memorandum of understanding signed between Washington and Tehran. The ministers also discussed Israel’s military escalation in Lebanon and highlighted the importance of intensifying coordination and consultation to support diplomatic efforts aimed at containing the crisis and preventing further instability. In a joint statement issued after the meeting, the four countries expressed their full support for the US-Iran negotiations and highlighted the importance of ensuring the success of the talks. The ministers said progress in the negotiations would contribute to strengthening regional security and stability, while helping to reduce tensions across the Middle East. They also emphasized the need to continue pursuing diplomatic solutions to regional conflicts and to work collectively to mitigate the repercussions of crises. Later, the ministers were received by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi who welcomed the convening of the meeting and said that recent regional developments have highlighted the pivotal role of the Kingdom, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye as key pillars of regional stability and security. He commended the intensive coordination among the four countries over the recent period and underscored the importance of continuing efforts to support the implementation of the US-Iran memorandum of understanding and ensuring the success of the negotiation process between the two sides. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN SAUDI ARABIA EGYPT PAKISTAN TURKIYE RELATED VIDEO Saudi FM says Iran’s attacks on the GCC resulted in a significant loss of trust in Tehran Saudi FM participates in ministerial meeting between GCC and Canada Latest Updates Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan and Turkiye back US-Iran talks at Cairo meeting Makkah exhibition displays historic marble tiles from Grand Mosque Saudi Arabia enables access to academic results via Tawakkalna Syrian authorities receive more than 10,000 citizenship applications from Kurds since May Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability EN
