Arab News Wednesday . July 08, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Business & Economy Saudi Arabia World Israeli strike kills World Cup screening organizer in Gaza just before kickoff Previous Pause Next Home Trump says interim accord with Iran to end war is “over” Trump says interim accord with Iran to end war is “over” Previous 0 seconds of 22 secondsVolume 0% DEVELOPING US President Donald Trump speaks as he meets with NATO Secretary General on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Ankara, on July 8, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/wxumz Updated 08 July 2026 14:56 ARAB NEWS July 08, 2026 11:23 Follow Trump said the ceasefire with Iran was over, calling Tehran “sick” NATO chief Mark Rutte says overnight strikes on Iran by US forces “absolutely necessary” ANKARA: US President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that the memorandum of understanding signed with Iran to end the conflict was “over”, adding he didn’t want to engage with Tehran. The interim ceasefire agreement signed between Washington and Tehran - under the mediation of Pakistan - was intended to provide a 60-day window for negotiations on a permanent agreement, but indirect talks in Qatar ended last week with no sign of headway and the US military unleashed a new wave of strikes against Iran on Tuesday. “To me, I think it’s over. I don’t want to deal with them,” Trump said ahead of a NATO summit in the Turkish capital Ankara. “They’re scum. They’re sick people. They’re led by sick people,” he added alongside NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte. “As far as I'm concerned, it’s just a waste of time dealing with them.” The US on Tuesday also revoked a license allowing Iran to sell oil after three tankers were hit by projectiles in the Strait of Hormuz. But later Trump did not repeat his comments on the termination of interim deal with iran during the Nato summit, according to a source familiar with the talks said. Under the interim US-Iran agreement, the US Treasury issued a June 22 general license to allow the sale of crude oil and petrochemical and petroleum products of Iranian origin through Aug. 21. In revoking that license on Tuesday, it gave Iran until July 17 to wind down any transactions. The overnight strikes on Iran by US forces were “absolutely necessary”, NATO chief Mark Rutte said on Wednesday as the alliance began a key summit in Ankara. “I think it was absolutely necessary because when you have a ceasefire and Iran is basically violating the ceasefire - we see what happened yesterday with ships being attacked - I think it is totally crucial that the US forcefully react,” he told journalists. He also said: “I expect allies to re-confirm today that Iran should completely re-open Strait of Hormuz .” (With agencies) Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE Oil jumps over 5% after Trump says deal with Iran ‘over’ UPDATE Widespread condemnation of latest Iranian attacks Latest Updates Saudi, global firms sign 3 hotel management deals Saudi reserve assets rise 8% to $495bn as foreign holdings increase Saudi Tomoh program supports over 3k fast-growing firms, helps 40 list on Nomu Saudi FM meets counterpart in Oman to discuss regional developments Audi Capital joins LeadCrest Capital Partners in sale-leaseback acquisition of Italian ateliers de couture Editor’s Choice WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader EN
