Arab News Thursday . June 25, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Business & Economy Egypt, China’s SANY sign MoU for 1st wind turbine factory, 2GW project Previous Pause Next Home Rubio warns Hormuz tolls would ‘spread like contagion’ to other waterways Rubio warns Hormuz tolls would ‘spread like contagion’ to other waterways Previous 0 seconds of 23 secondsVolume 0% US Secretary of State Marco Rubio arrives to attend a meeting with foreign ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council Member States during his visit to the Middle East to discuss the interim deal between the US and Iran with Arab Gulf allies, in Manama on June 25, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/232w7 Updated 25 June 2026 13:39 AFP June 25, 2026 08:30 Follow The top US diplomat also gave assurances that the interests of Gulf countries would be taken into account MANAMA: US Secretary of State Marco Rubio on Thursday warned that Iranian tolls on ships passing the Strait of Hormuz would spread to other waterways, risking “total chaos.” “International waterways do not belong to any nation state. This is a foundational principle in the world today, without which the world would be in total chaos,” he told a Gulf Cooperation Council meeting in Bahrain. “If in fact we accepted that you can charge money to use an international waterway because it happens to be near your territorial space, well then this will spread throughout the world like a contagion.” Rubio, on his first regional tour since the US and Iran signed a memorandum of understanding to end the Middle East war, said the US wants a peace deal but not “at any price.” “While we want a deal, we don’t want a deal at any price,” he said. “We want a deal that’s good, we want a deal that’s real, we want a deal that’s verifiable, and we want a deal that’s adhered to.” The top US diplomat, who has visited the heavily attacked UAE, Kuwait and Bahrain on his tour, also gave assurances that the interests of Gulf countries would be taken into account. “We want to ensure... that there is no part of this deal that’s undertaken that in any way undermines the security, the stability, or the prosperity of any of our partners in the Gulf region,” he said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Iran warns against Hormuz crossings without authorization Iran-Gulf-Iraq talks to focus on future Hormuz operations Latest Updates Macron: France intercepts Russia-linked tanker off Sicily Qatar property index reaches record high in May on strong real estate activity Stellar performances by lower ranked teams at Women’s T20 World Cup Egypt, China’s SANY sign MoU for 1st wind turbine factory, 2GW project MMA great Cris Cyborg to retire after PFL Tampa Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
