Arab News Monday . June 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Saudi Arabia Middle East Body of fourth victim in Croatia ship collision recovered Previous Pause Next Home One dead in Israeli strike on car in south Lebanon One dead in Israeli strike on car in south Lebanon A displaced girl walks on top of her family's home, destroyed by the Israeli military, upon her return to their village in Deir Qanoun en Nhar, south Lebanon, on Monday. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/vhu2c Updated 15 June 2026 21:46 AFP June 15, 2026 14:42 Follow Attack is the first deadly strike since the announcement of a deal to end the Iran war, which includes Lebanon Hezbollah later said it had repelled an Israeli force that was trying to “advance” in southern Lebanon BEIRUT: An Israeli strike in the south of Lebanon on Monday killed one person, state media said, the first reported deadly strike since the announcement of a deal to end the Middle East war on all fronts. “Enemy drone aircraft targeted a car at the Kfar Tibnit roundabout, leading to the death of its driver,” the National News Agency (NNA) said, referring to a village near the city of Nabatieh. Later on Monday, Lebanese militant group Hezbollah said it had repelled an Israeli force that was trying to “advance” in southern Lebanon, despite the US-Iran agreement to end the Middle East war on all fronts including in Lebanon. Fighters from the group “using rockets and drones” blocked an Israeli force consisting of an excavator and two Merkava tanks that was “advancing” in the vicinity of Kfar Tebnit town near the southern city of Nabatieh, Hezbollah said in a statement. Meanwhile, Lebanese President Joseph Aoun welcomed the announced US-Iran deal to end the Middle East war during a call from Tehran’s top diplomat and foreign minister Abbas Araghchi, the Lebanese presidency said in a statement. The Lebanese leader said he hoped the agreement would be a “positive step toward reducing tensions and opening the door to diplomatic solutions,” while Araghchi emphasized “the importance of respecting Lebanon’s sovereignty,” the statement said. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON WAR IN IRAN RELATED UPDATE Hezbollah says US-Iran agreement covers Lebanon, warns Israel against violations Israel says won’t withdraw troops from Lebanon, Syria, Gaza Latest Updates Spain stunned in 0-0 draw with World Cup debutants Cape Verde What We Are Reading Today: ‘Your Body Never Meant You Any Harm’ Medic and young son among 4 killed in Gaza by Israeli fire Body of fourth victim in Croatia ship collision recovered One Syrian security member killed in Daesh attack in Raqqa Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? EN
