Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Offbeat Sport Saudi Arabia World Middle East Business & Economy Lifestyle IOC asked to investigate FIFA president’s role in Balogun reversal Russian Haaland lookalike says viral video felt ‘like a dream’ Previous Pause Next Home US launches new round of strikes against Iran as escalation threatens shipping US launches new round of strikes against Iran as escalation threatens shipping Previous 0 seconds of 13 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Above, a screen grab of an earlier US military strike in Iran from a handout video that was released by US Central Command on July 13, 2026. (US Central Command Public Affairs/AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/57zda Updated 15 July 2026 15:04 REUTERS July 15, 2026 14:24 Follow Strikes mark the latest escalation of attacks and counterattacks launched by the two sides as they vie for control of the Strait of Hormuz CAIRO/DUBAI: The ​US said it had begun a new wave of strikes against Iran on Wednesday after reimposing a naval blockade of Iranian ports, while Iran threatened to shut off more regional energy exports. The strikes mark the latest escalation of attacks and counterattacks launched by the two sides as they vie for control of the Strait of Hormuz, which carried about a fifth ‌of global oil and ‌gas shipments before the war. “At ​6 ‌a.m. ⁠ET today, ​US ⁠Central Command forces began launching a wave of strikes against Iran,” the US military said. “The strikes are designed to further degrade military capabilities Iranian forces have used to attack commercial shipping in the Strait of Hormuz.” The US statement gave no further details and there were no immediate reports of attacks in Iranian media. Late ⁠on Tuesday the US military said it ‌had hit dozens of military targets near ‌the Strait of Hormuz and Iranian ​coastal areas in strikes lasting ‌seven hours. In response, Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said on Wednesday ‌it had struck US military targets in the region, including in Bahrain, Kuwait and Jordan. It also threatened on Wednesday to shut off more regional energy exports, saying the US “must brace for the closure of all ‌other export corridors that benefit the US and its allies.” The US has said Iran had ⁠attacked seven ⁠commercial ships over the last week, leading to nearly a dozen crew members being killed, missing or injured. The war, which began with US and Israeli strikes against Iran on February 28, triggered Iranian attacks on Gulf states that host US bases and caused major disruption to global energy supplies, raising fears of a surge in inflation. Oil prices extended gains by about 1 percent on Wednesday, after settling on Tuesday on a new one-month high. An interim ceasefire deal in the conflict signed last ​month was meant to lead ​to further negotiations and a permanent truce, but a return to talks has faltered. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US RELATED VIDEO US reimposes its blockade on Iran after Tehran’s attacks on ships in the Strait of Hormuz Tehran threatens to halt all Mideast energy exports after US reimposes its blockade on Iran Latest Updates US launches new round of strikes against Iran as escalation threatens shipping Lebanon parliament to discuss sweeping amnesty bill IOC asked to investigate FIFA president’s role in Balogun reversal Russian Haaland lookalike says viral video felt ‘like a dream’ Syrian foreign minister arrives in Riyadh for talks with Saudi officials Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN × We Speak your Language! Arab News is now available in 50 languages. Please login or register with your email to select your preferred languages. Login or Register
