Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy World Middle East Saudi Arabia Saudi team wins five awards at Physics Olympiad, Kingdom to host 2027 edition Previous Pause Next Home Israel’s election will be held on October 27, coalition head says Israel’s election will be held on October 27, coalition head says UPDATE Likud chairman Benjamin Netanyahu casts his ballot at a polling station in Jerusalem in Israel’s fifth election in less than four years, Nov. 1, 2022. (Files/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/4nkbb Updated 13 July 2026 08:02 REUTERS July 12, 2026 22:18 Follow The precise ballot date had been unclear since the Israeli parliament voted in ‌May to ‌disband JERUSALEM: Israel ‌is set to hold a national election on October 27, according to Prime ​Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s coalition, its first since Hamas’ 2023 attack and the wars that ensued in Gaza, Lebanon and Iran. The precise ballot date had been unclear since the Israeli parliament voted in ‌May to ‌disband, raising the ​possibility ‌the election ⁠could ​be held ⁠early. However, coalition head Ofir Katz told a parliamentary committee on Sunday that the original October 27 date set by law would be kept. Successive surveys have suggested Netanyahu’s ⁠coalition of nationalist and religious ‌parties would ‌lose the ballot, though his ​political rivals still ‌have no clear path to ‌power and the political landscape may still shift. Less than a year after a 2022 political comeback at the head ‌of Israel’s most right-wing government to date, Netanyahu’s security credentials ⁠were ⁠left in tatters by Hamas’ surprise attack on October 7, 2023. Polls show many are unhappy with Netanyahu over the outcome of the Iran war. It is rare for governments in Israel to complete a full four-year term. Netanyahu is Israel’s longest-serving leader ​and has proven himself ​an unmatched political survivor. Follow Topics: ISRAEL RELATED EU countries to discuss trade ban on Israeli settlements VIDEO US Democrat Ro Khanna detained by Israeli settlers during West Bank visit Latest Updates Drone strikes kill 3, wound 5 in Moscow region: governor Iran’s Guards say struck US military bases in Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait Saudi team wins five awards at Physics Olympiad, Kingdom to host 2027 edition Huge fire rages in Fontainebleau forest near Paris Truck carrying wedding guests struck on Indonesia highway, killing 13 people Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN
