Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Tehran threatens to halt all Mideast energy exports after US reimposes its blockade on Iran Previous Pause Next Home One dead, 2 missing after boat sinks near San Francisco’s Alcatraz One dead, 2 missing after boat sinks near San Francisco’s Alcatraz Previous 0 seconds of 33 secondsVolume 0% SFFD Chief Dean Crispen and San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie speak with media about the boat incident on July 14, 2026 in San Francisco, California. (Getty Images via AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/v8cxc Updated 15 July 2026 10:34 AFP July 15, 2026 10:35 Follow Helicopters, planes and rescue boats operated by local fire and police teams were working alongside US Coast Guard to find the missing SAN FRANCISCO, United States: One person was dead and two were missing after a boat carrying 19 people sank near Alcatraz, the former prison and tourist site in San Francisco Bay, US officials said Tuesday. Helicopters, planes and rescue boats operated by local fire and police teams were working alongside US Coast Guard to find the missing. Fire Chief Dean Crispen said rescuers first responded to a report of “a boat on fire, 600 yards off Alcatraz” Island around 3:35 p.m. (1035 GMT), according to a short Instagram video posted by San Francisco’s mayor. When rescuers approached, the boat had capsized and efforts were made to resuscitate the person who died. “They immediately initiated CPR, transported that patient to the shore. They were declared deceased,” Crispen said. “We still have two missing and one deceased dog.” San Francisco Fire Department Lt. Elias Mariano told AFP the search for the two people still missing will continue “through the night.” The boat was a privately owned cabin cruiser motorboat from Stockton, California, Mariano said. Authorities did not know if the boat was headed to Alcatraz, a major tourist attraction, where shuttered buildings of the famous former prison still stand. At least one person was severely injured in the water when rescuers arrived, the Los Angeles Times reported. Authorities confirmed the remaining 16 passengers were rescued. Local television stations aired footage of the final moments of the boat sinking in the San Francisco Bay. Follow Topics: US RELATED Man accused of captaining migrant boat that capsized, killing 4, is charged UPDATE Missouri boat accident kills 17, including nine from one family Latest Updates Liverpool Arab Arts Festival unveils 2026 program Israel allocates $434m to build 34 new settlements in West Bank US reimposes its blockade on Iran after Tehran’s attacks on ships in the Strait of Hormuz Oil prices rise as hostilities worsen in the Middle East G7 urges halt to attacks in Sudan’s El-Obeid, calls for wider arms embargo Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN
