Arab News Tuesday . June 23, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Books Middle East World Sport Ronaldo becomes first player to score in six World Cups with two goals against Uzbekistan Previous Pause Next Home Trump insists Iran has agreed to nuclear inspections Trump insists Iran has agreed to nuclear inspections Previous 0 seconds of 29 secondsVolume 0% Trump ⁠also said ‌in ‌an ​early ‌morning social ‌media post that the United States would ‌leave ships in the Strait ⁠of ⁠Hormuz. (REUTERS) Next Short Url https://arab.news/p6xmw Updated 23 June 2026 23:00 REUTERS June 23, 2026 11:30 Follow Trump ⁠also said ‌in ‌an ​early ‌morning social ‌media post that the United States would ‌leave ships in the Strait ⁠of ⁠Hormuz WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump insisted on Tuesday that Iran has agreed to allow nuclear inspections ​long into the future, despite statements from Iran that it has not done so. “Iran has fully and completely agreed to highest level Nuclear inspections long into the future (Infinity!!!),” he wrote in a social media post. “This will insure ‘Nuclear Honesty.’ If they ‌did not ‌agree to this, there ​would ‌be ⁠no further ​negotiations!“ Iran has ⁠denied it had begun discussions on its nuclear program or agreed to invite International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors back to the country. Trump also said that the United States would leave ships in the Strait ⁠of Hormuz in case it ‌becomes necessary to ‌reimpose its blockade of Iranian ports, ​something he said ‌was “at this point, highly unlikely.” He added ‌that 19 million barrels of oil flowed out of the Hormuz Strait on Monday. The United States waived sanctions on Iran for 60 ‌days from Monday after the first talks under a nascent peace deal. Trump ⁠on ⁠Tuesday said the funds that the US Treasury is releasing will go into escrow under US control and will be used to buy food and medical supplies exclusively from the United States, including corn, wheat, and soybeans. “These are things that are desperately needed by Iran. This is a humanitarian crisis, and I feel ​it is necessary ​to help, NOW, before it is too late,” Trump wrote. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED India hopes Hormuz traffic will provide energy relief Trump accuses New York Times of ‘treason’ over Iran war coverage Latest Updates Al-Sharaa meets Chevron delegation to discuss Syrian offshore gas project What We Are Reading Today: ‘The Regenerate Leap’ Ronaldo becomes first player to score in six World Cups with two goals against Uzbekistan 39 and counting: Messi is still making history as he celebrates birthday US eases restriction on Iran’s World Cup team, allowing travel 2 days before next match Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News EN
