Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World How decades-old Sunday book market shapes Delhi’s reading habits Previous Pause Next Home Israeli attacks in Gaza kill six people, including a girl, medics say Israeli attacks in Gaza kill six people, including a girl, medics say Displaced Palestinians shelter at a tent camp in Khan Younis, southern Gaza Strip. (REUTERS) Short Url https://arab.news/4qwkc Updated 12 July 2026 18:29 REUTERS July 12, 2026 12:46 Follow Israeli gunfire at tent encampment on Al-Bureij refugee camp killed 9-year-old Tala Abu Matar, medics say Israel's military did not immediately comment on Palestinian girl’s death CAIRO: Israeli attacks killed at least six people in the Gaza Strip on Sunday, including a 9-year-old girl, Palestinian health officials said, as mediators held more talks to safeguard the US-brokered ceasefire. Medics said Israeli gunfire directed at a tent encampment on the eastern side of the Al-Bureij refugee camp in central Gaza killed 9-year-old Tala Abu Matar. ‌The Israeli military ‌said it was not aware of the ​incident. An ‌airstrike ⁠at ​a metal ⁠foundry in Gaza City’s Sabra neighborhood killed four people. Witnesses said the site was hit with three Israeli missiles. Israel’s military told Reuters it had struck “terrorist” infrastructure, without giving further details. Separately, the military said that since Thursday its forces had killed at least two Hamas fighters in northern Gaza who were planning attacks on its troops. Later on ⁠Sunday, an Israeli strike at a tent ‌encampment in the Mawasi area of Khan ‌Younis, in the south, killed at ​least one person and wounded several ‌others, including children, medics said. Israel’s military did not immediately comment. The ‌ceasefire agreed in October 2025 between Israel and Hamas halted major fighting in the enclave, but it has failed to stop Israeli attacks that have killed more than 1,000 Palestinians since it took effect. Four Israeli ‌soldiers have been killed by militants in Gaza over the same period. The latest violence comes as ⁠Hamas leaders ⁠visited Cairo for further talks over implementing the second phase of US President Donald Trump’s Gaza peace plan. The discussions include Hamas disarmament and Israeli army withdrawals, according to sources close to the talks, adding that there had not yet been a breakthrough. Nearly all of Gaza’s 2 million people, most of whom have been displaced several times, now live on a tiny strip of land along the coast, mainly in makeshift tents or damaged buildings, under Hamas control. Hamas-led fighters killed 1,200 people during their cross-border attack into Israel ​on October 7, 2023, ​according to Israeli tallies. The Gaza health ministry said more than 73,000 Palestinians have been killed in the territory since then. Follow Topics: WAR IN GAZA PALESTINIAN CHILDREN RELATED Plans for post-war Gaza face challenges on the ground Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 Latest Updates France powers down nuclear reactors over heatwave Sudan court sentences RSF leader to death in absentia How decades-old Sunday book market shapes Delhi’s reading habits Guests of King Salman’s program tour Madinah’s landmarks UAE president arrives in El Alamein for talks with Egyptian president Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
