Arab News Saturday . June 20, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Saudi Arabia Neymar expected to return from right calf injury and play for Brazil in World Cup against Scotland Previous Pause Next Home UN Sudan envoy urges paramilitaries to halt El-Obeid assault UN Sudan envoy urges paramilitaries to halt El-Obeid assault Pekka Haavisto. (AFP/File) Short Url https://arab.news/mwaph Updated 20 June 2026 08:33 AFP June 20, 2026 04:34 Follow UNITED NATIONS: The UN secretary-general’s special envoy for Sudan on Friday called the head of rebel paramilitary forces to urge him not to attack the major city of El-Obeid, where the United Nations fears an imminent offensive. In a phone call with General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, Pekka Haavisto “made a very strong appeal,” according to the spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Stephane Dujarric. Haavisto “underscored the need to urgently de-escalate the situation in El-Obeid and avoid any actions that may further worsen the already dire humanitarian situation and put civilian lives further at risk,” Dujarric said. The spokesman said aid workers were “preparing for the potential movements of large numbers of people” fleeing the city, and that “our humanitarian colleagues are doing the responsible thing, which is getting ready for the worst while hoping for the best.” The city of El-Obeid, in the Kordofan region, has been under siege for several months by the Rapid Support Forces , which has been at war with the regular army since April 2023. The UN fears a repeat of the atrocities committed during the October 2025 assault on the city of El-Fasher, which the UN said bore “hallmarks of genocide.” Dujarric said that Haavisto was also talking to countries with influence over the warring parties to encourage dialogue and prevent the assault. The conflict in Sudan has killed tens of thousands of people and forced more than 11 million from their homes, creating what the UN describes as the world’s largest displacement and hunger crises. Follow Topics: SUDAN UNREST Latest Updates Five killed in Israeli strikes on south Lebanon despite ceasefire Nigerian migrants returning from South Africa face the same economic issues they left behind Neymar expected to return from right calf injury and play for Brazil in World Cup against Scotland Paraguay’s Almiron sent off under new FIFA ‘mouth-covering’ rule Saudi relief agency trains over 1,000 vulnerable Gazans in vocational and digital skills Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges EN
