Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Sport World Middle East One dead, 2 missing after boat sinks near San Francisco’s Alcatraz Previous Pause Next Home Israel allocates $434m to build 34 new settlements in occupied West Bank Israel allocates $434m to build 34 new settlements in occupied West Bank Previous 0 seconds of 34 secondsVolume 0% This photo shows the Israeli settlement of Dolev, west of Ramallah in the occupied West Bank, July 14, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/yc6wd Updated 15 July 2026 10:58 ARAB NEWS July 15, 2026 10:25 Follow Government decision is ‘historic,’ says far-right minister Bezalel Smotrich Already 279 illegal settlements in West Bank, 14 in East Jerusalem LONDON: Israel allocated on Tuesday a budget of 1.3 billion shekels ($434 million) to build 34 new settlements in the occupied West Bank. Far-right Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich described the government’s decision for the new settlements drive as “historic.” “We are strengthening the security of the State of Israel, killing the idea of establishing a terrorist state in the heart of the country, and strengthening our hold on the homeland in Judea and Samaria,” he said, using the Biblical names for the West Bank. The Palestinian said that the name “Judea and Samaria” attempts to present a facade of historical and religious legitimacy for Israel’s claim over the territory, according to the Palestine News Agency. There are already 279 settlements in the West Bank, including 14 in East Jerusalem, which Israel occupied in 1967. Almost 737,000 settlers live in these settlements, among 3.43 million Palestinians. Israeli settlement building and expansion in the West Bank and East Jerusalem have long been condemned by many members of the UN, and is widely considered to be illegal under international law. Some European leaders, including French President Emmanuel Macron, have described Israel’s land grab of Palestinian territory as a threat to peace and the establishment of a Palestinian state. Follow Topics: PALESTINE ISRAEL RELATED Freed Palestinian detainees campaign against sexual abuse in Israeli jails Lebanon and Israel hold talks in Rome amid renewed Mideast fighting Latest Updates Netanyahu will travel to US on Saturday, senior Israeli official says One dead, 2 missing after boat sinks near San Francisco’s Alcatraz Liverpool Arab Arts Festival unveils 2026 program Israel allocates $434m to build 34 new settlements in West Bank US reimposes its blockade on Iran after Tehran’s attacks on ships in the Strait of Hormuz Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN
