LIVE NO SOUNDS OF ‘EXPLOSIONS’ IN DOWNTOWN DUBAI, SAYS MEDIA OFFICE × Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Sport Saudi Arabia Poland charges Ukrainian with vandalizing war memorials to stir ethnic tensions Previous Pause Next Home Escalating Israeli strikes kill five people in Gaza, medics say Escalating Israeli strikes kill five people in Gaza, medics say Men carry the body of one of several victims who were killed after a police station was was hit by Israeli bombardment in the Jabalia camp. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/nej97 Updated 16 July 2026 13:55 REUTERS July 16, 2026 10:50 Follow The deaths add to a ‌toll of more than 1,100 Palestinians, ‌mostly civilians, killed by Israeli attacks since an ​October ceasefire between Israel and Hamas ‌to end the war took effect CAIRO: Israeli strikes killed at least five Palestinians in the Gaza Strip on Thursday, Palestinian health officials said, as a US-based research group reported a surge in Israeli attacks to levels not seen since the latest truce took effect in October. Medics said an Israeli airstrike killed two people near the Tuffah neighborhood in the north of the enclave, ‌while a third person ‌was killed in Israeli tank shelling ​in ‌the ⁠Zeitoun suburb in ​eastern ⁠Gaza City. Another airstrike at a tent encampment for displaced people in western Gaza City killed one person and wounded several, while an attack on a vehicle in Khan Younis, in the south, killed another, medics said. Witnesses also reported that an airstrike hit a residential building in Deir Al-Balah in central Gaza. The Israeli military had no immediate comment on ⁠any of the incidents. The deaths add to a ‌toll of more than 1,100 Palestinians, ‌mostly civilians, killed by Israeli attacks since an ​October ceasefire between Israel and Hamas ‌to end the war took effect, according to Gazan health officials. ‌Hamas does not usually disclose its losses. The truce halted major fighting, but has failed to stop near daily Israeli strikes. Four Israeli soldiers have been killed by militants in Gaza over the same period. Conflict monitor ACLED, which tracks ‌Israeli attacks in Gaza, said air- and drone strikes against Hamas and other militants increased to more than ⁠40 in June, ⁠the highest monthly total since the ceasefire. “With polls showing the opposition in the lead, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is facing growing domestic pressure to take a tougher security position against Hamas,” ACLED Middle East Assistant Research Manager Nasser Khdour said, referring to Israel’s legislative election in October. Israel says its strikes aim to thwart attacks by Gaza militants. Nearly all of Gaza’s 2 million people now live on a tiny strip of land along the coast, mainly in makeshift tents or damaged buildings, under Hamas control. Hamas-led fighters killed 1,200 people during ​their cross-border attack into Israel ​on October 7, 2023, according to Israeli tallies. The Gazan health ministry said Israel’s subsequent offensive killed more than 73,000 Palestinians. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA RELATED UPDATE Israel tells Pentagon chief will keep troops in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza ‘security zones’ Saving Gaza’s past, one artefact at a time Latest Updates Boost for Afghan women cricketers chasing their dreams Iran slams ‘barbaric’ US attack after hospital evacuated due to nearby strike Fears for Indian activist’s life after 18 days of hunger strike Middle East anchors global critical materials supply chains: IEA Poland charges Ukrainian with vandalizing war memorials to stir ethnic tensions Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
