Arab News Sunday . June 21, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia World Middle East Matcha meets Saudi hospitality experience Previous Pause Next Home Poll finds Israelis believe Iran won Middle East war Poll finds Israelis believe Iran won Middle East war The survey found that even among voters who support the right-wing bloc, the electoral base of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (C), 93.1 percent believed Iran had won. (Reuters/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/9wgde Updated 21 June 2026 16:53 AFP June 21, 2026 16:49 Follow The findings pointed to a broader crisis of confidence in Israel’s leadership JERUSALEM: Israelis overwhelmingly believe that Iran emerged stronger from the Middle East war and its subsequent deal with the United States, a poll released on Sunday found. The poll of 3,644 respondents, conducted between June 17 and 20 by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in collaboration with the Agam Institute, paints a stark picture of public sentiment following the US-Iran deal. Of those surveyed, 92.1 percent said Iran had won or gained more from the conflict, while 82.9 percent felt that Israel’s long-term security had been weakened. The survey found that even among voters who support the right-wing bloc, the electoral base of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, 93.1 percent believed Iran had won. Opposition to the US-Iran agreement was widespread, with 63.2 percent of respondents opposing it compared with just 12.1 percent expressing support. The findings pointed to a broader crisis of confidence in Israel’s leadership. Nearly three-quarters of those surveyed, 72.5 percent, said they did not believe Netanyahu’s claims about the military campaign’s achievements, while 56.4 percent rated his management of the campaign as “failed” or “poor.” The poll also pointed to the political price paid by Netanyahu, with support for his premiership plummeting from 40.5 percent in early March to 29.4 percent in June. Despite this, the survey found ongoing support for military action against Hezbollah in Lebanon. Nearly half of respondents, 48.2 percent, backed renewed major military action against Hezbollah in Lebanon, even if it risked confrontation with Washington, while only 21 percent opposed such a move. Negotiations to turn the temporary Iran-US agreement into a more permanent deal were to take place in Switzerland on Sunday, despite the conflict in Lebanon threatening negotiations. Washington announced a renewed ceasefire there on Friday after Israeli troops clashed with Hezbollah fighters in southern Lebanon, with each side accusing the other of breaking the truce. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US ISRAEL RELATED US media slam Trump’s ‘spin job’ over Iran war agreement Trump, Netanyahu clash over Iran strategy and Lebanon ceasefire Latest Updates Closing Bell: Saudi main index slips to close at 11,076 Saudi-run terminal at Bangladesh’s largest port to go full capacity next month Kuwait annual inflation eases to 2.49% in May AlUla, UNESCO program safeguards living heritage Erdogan orders talks to reopen Orthodox Christian seminary in Turkiye, a focus for Trump Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Palestinians ‘trapped’ between Israeli settler violence and Hamas atrocities, UN Commission chair tells Arab News MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability EN
