Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Saudi Arabia Military talks to finalize pilot zones for Israeli withdrawal in southern Lebanon Previous Pause Next Home Iraqi oil loadings briefly suspended after drone hits tanker at Basra, sources say Iraqi oil loadings briefly suspended after drone hits tanker at Basra, sources say Iraq briefly suspended oil loadings on Thursday before resuming them after a drone hit an oil tanker at its Basra terminal, four Iraqi oil and security sources told Reuters. (X/@BoqashO) Short Url https://arab.news/yskh5 Updated 16 July 2026 17:26 REUTERS July 16, 2026 17:17 Follow The drone did not cause damage or fire and it was not immediately clear who launched it “It is ‌not ⁠targeting Basra Oil ⁠Terminal. Its target is another place. Loading is at normal rates depending on the vessels’ availability,” Nazar said BASRA: Iraq briefly suspended oil loadings on Thursday before resuming them after a drone hit an oil tanker at its Basra terminal, four Iraqi oil and security sources told Reuters. The drone did not cause damage or fire and it was not immediately clear who launched it, the sources added. The incident was not a direct attack on the terminals or vessels there, the ‌head of ‌Iraq’s state oil marketer SOMO told Reuters. “It is ‌not ⁠targeting Basra Oil ⁠Terminal. Its target is another place. Loading is at normal rates depending on the vessels’ availability,” Ali Nazar said. An oil ministry spokesperson said loadings were ongoing at Iraq’s southern ports and that the ministry is investigating the matter. The oil tanker was towed outside the port along with another tanker that was anchored ⁠as a precautionary measure, the four sources said. On ‌Wednesday, a drone came down ‌in Iraq’s Faw port without causing any damage, the state news agency ‌reported, without giving further detail. Operations at the port were ‌not affected. The Iran war has disrupted oil exports from Iraq’s southern terminals due to the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz. Iraq, OPEC’s second-largest producer, exported 10 million barrels of oil via the ‌Strait of Hormuz in April, down from about 93 million per month before the war, ⁠according to ⁠oil minister Basim Mohammed. Total June exports stood at around 24.5 million barrels, two oil officials told Reuters on July 5. Iraq has also been exporting via Turkiye using the northern Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline and has sought to export oil through Syria. Baghdad has been striving to balance its ties with neighboring Iran and the US amid the military escalation between the two. However, Tehran has launched attacks against Iranian Kurdish opposition groups in northern Iraq, while Iran-backed militants in Iraq have launched attacks against Gulf neighbors. Follow Topics: IRAQ BASRA DRONE ATTACK RELATED Iraq starts work on Basra-Haditha oil pipeline, state news agency says UPDATE Blasts heard near US consulate in Iraq’s Irbil, air defenses activated: AFP Latest Updates Bahri opens first integrated logistics facility at Jeddah port Riyadh governor receives Tanzanian ambassador UK hackers jailed for London transport cyberattack which cost nearly $40m Military talks to finalize pilot zones for Israeli withdrawal in southern Lebanon France, Morocco seek expressions of interest for undersea electricity link, French PM says Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
