Arab News Tuesday . July 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Sport Spain apologizes for ex-PM’s column questioning ‘Frenchness’ of France team Previous Pause Next Home Blasts heard in Kuwait, air raid sirens sounded in Bahrain Blasts heard in Kuwait, air raid sirens sounded in Bahrain Explosions were heard in Kuwait City on Tuesday. (File/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/7nsan Updated 14 July 2026 20:37 AFP July 14, 2026 16:04 Follow KUWAIT CITY: Explosions were heard in Kuwait City on Tuesday, an AFP journalist reported, as the Gulf nation’s army announced for the second time in less than half an hour that it was intercepting “hostile” targets. “The General Staff of the Kuwait Armed Forces announces that any explosions are the result of the Air Defense systems intercepting hostile attacks,” the army said in its statements, without providing further details. There were no immediate details or reports of casualties or damage from Tuesday’s attack on Kuwait. Meanwhile, air raid sirens were sounded in Bahrain on Tuesday, the interior ministry said, after Manama announced it had intercepted several Iranian attacks earlier in the day. “The siren has been sounded ... Citizens and residents are urged to remain calm and head to the nearest safe place,” the interior ministry said in a statement posted on social media. Iran has launched repeated attacks on Kuwait and other US-allied Gulf countries in recent days in response to US strikes. The latest exchanges of fire have been triggered by Iran attacking commercial ships in the Strait of Hormuz. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Kuwait says three border posts, offshore oil platform attacked UAE president arrives in Kuwait for talks with emir Latest Updates Trump told Netanyahu to move Israeli forces out of Syria and Lebanon: Axios Saudi Arabia condemns latest Iranian attacks on regional countries Hundreds protest in Maine over the fatal shooting of a Colombian man by ICE Spain apologizes for ex-PM’s column questioning ‘Frenchness’ of France team After Lindsey Graham’s death, questions linger about aging politicians and health transparency Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria EN
