Arab News Tuesday . June 30, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA NEWS THE PLACE THE SPACE WHO'S WHO KSA TODAY GREEN & BLUE MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East World Sport Saudi Arabia In south Lebanon, Netanyahu says Israel will stay as long as Hezbollah ‘threatens us’ Previous Pause Next Home China calls for maintaining Iran talks momentum China calls for maintaining Iran talks momentum China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan held talks in Beijing on Tuesday. (SPA) Short Url https://arab.news/wm4j9 Updated 30 June 2026 20:21 ARAB NEWS June 30, 2026 19:37 Follow In meeting with his Saudi counterpart, Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Beijing is willing to work with Riyadh to ease tensions in the region Prince Faisal bin Farhan and Wang discuss freedom of navigation through the Strait of Hormuz BEIJING: China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Tuesday called for maintaining the momentum in the negotiations between the ‌US and ‌Iran in ‌a meeting in Beijing with his Saudi counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan. "The current ceasefire remains fragile, ‌but ‌talking is better ‌than fighting, ‌and dialogue is better than confrontation," Wang said, according to Xinhua news agency. He added that Beijing is willing to work with Saudi Arabia to ease tensions in the region and promote lasting peace. During their meeting, Wang and Prince Faisal discussed the importance of maintaining freedom of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz, saying that the waterway “contributes to supporting energy security and the stability of the global economy,” Saudi Press Agency reported. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan held talks in Beijing on Tuesday. (SPA) Iran shut down the Strait after the conflict with Israel and the US started four months ago. Fully reopening the waterway, through which a fifth of the world’s oil and liquified natural gas used to pass, has become a key aspect of ongoing negotiations between Tehran and Washington. China, which relies on energy exports from the Gulf, has repeatedly called for an end to the Iran conflict, with the foreign ministry saying last month that a solution would be beneficial to both the United States, Iran, and the rest of the world. Wang and Prince Faisal also discussed the latest regional and international developments and “efforts to de-escalate tensions and promote security and stability.” The talks covered ways for the two countries “to enhance economic, trade, and investment cooperation” and strengthen ties in energy, industry, supply chains, and advanced technologies. Earlier, Prince Faisal met Chinese Vice President Han Zheng. *With Reuters Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Saudi foreign minister meets Chinese vice president Saudi Cabinet condemns Iranian attacks on Kuwait and Bahrain Latest Updates DP World ILT20 prepared me for international stage, says Khuzaima Tanveer China calls for maintaining Iran talks momentum In south Lebanon, Netanyahu says Israel will stay as long as Hezbollah ‘threatens us’ False hope and schadenfreude: Familiar feelings for Germany after another World Cup flop Soccer fans clash with police in The Hague after Morocco stuns the Netherlands at the World Cup Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? EN
