Arab News Tuesday . June 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Sport Saudi Arabia World Saudi program trains Yemeni telecom staff in Aden Previous Pause Next Home Trump says Netanyahu should be more responsible with Lebanon Trump says Netanyahu should be more responsible with Lebanon UPDATE Iranian state television quoted Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi making the comment to foreign diplomats in a briefing. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/m9d45 Updated 16 June 2026 16:08 AFP REUTERS June 16, 2026 13:12 Follow US president says ‚Äåhe told ‚ÄåIsrael that he did not like its attack ‚Äåon Beirut and suggested that ‚ÅÝSyria should ‚ÅÝtake care of Hezbollah instead of Israel TEHRAN/EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France: US President Donald ‚ÄãTrump said on Tuesday that he has a great relationship with ‚ÄåIsraeli Prime ‚ÄåMinister ‚ÄãBenjamin ‚ÄåNetanyahu, ‚ÅÝbut ‚Äãthat he ‚ÅÝmust be more responsible with respect to Lebanon. Trump, speaking ‚ÅÝat the ‚ÄåG7 ‚Äåsummit, ‚Äãsaid ‚Äåhe told ‚ÄåIsrael that he did not like its attack ‚Äåon Beirut and suggested that ‚ÅÝSyria should ‚ÅÝtake care of Hezbollah instead of Israel. ‚ÄúIf Israel can‚Äôt do the job (against Hezbollah) without killing everyone else, than he (Sharaa) will do the job. Syria will do the job,‚Äù Trump said at a G7 summit, praising Syrian President Ahmed Al-Sharaa as doing an ‚Äúamazing job.‚Äù Hezbollah has received assurances from its ally ‚ÄãIran that it will demand a withdrawal of Israeli troops from Lebanon in its ‚Äånext phase ‚Äåof ‚Äãtalks ‚Äåwith ‚ÅÝthe ‚ÄãUnited States, Hezbollah‚Äôs ‚ÅÝmedia relations office told Reuters on Tuesday. A withdrawal would be the ‚ÅÝresult of, and ‚Äånot ‚Äåa pre-condition for, ‚Äãcontinuing ‚Äåtalks between ‚ÄåTehran and Washington following the signing of a memorandum of ‚Äåunderstanding between the two countries on Friday, ‚ÅÝHezbollah ‚ÅÝsaid. The group told Reuters that there would be ‚Äúno nuclear deal between Iran and the United States unless the Israelis ‚Äãwithdraw‚Äù from ‚ÄãLebanon. Iran‚Äôs Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on Tuesday that ending the war on all fronts, including Lebanon, was ‚Äúthe most important‚Äù issue in the peace deal with the US announced the day before. ‚ÄúThe important point I want to emphasize here is that in our view, there are two parties to this memorandum ‚Äî one side is America and Israel, and the other side is Iran and Hezbollah,‚Äù said Araghchi during a briefing with foreign diplomats broadcast on state television. ‚ÄúThis is perhaps the most important issue in the memorandum ‚Äî the declaration of an immediate and permanent end to the war on all fronts, including in Lebanon,‚Äù he said, adding that ‚Äúending the war in Lebanon is an inseparable part of the complete end of the war.‚Äù His remarks came one day after Tehran and Washington announced a memorandum of understanding aimed at ending the conflict, which broke out on February 28 with US-Israeli strikes on Iran and engulfed the Middle East. The deal between Iran and the United States is expected to be signed on Friday in Switzerland. Lebanese President Joseph Aoun and Prime Minister Nawaf Salam on Tuesday reaffirmed Lebanon‚Äôs position in negotiations for a permanent ceasefire and the withdrawal of Israeli forces, stressing the deployment of the Lebanese army to the international borders and the return of prisoners. Lebanon was pulled into the war in early March when Iran-backed Hezbollah launched rockets at Israel after the killing of Iran‚Äôs supreme leader, prompting Israeli strikes and a ground invasion. Araghchi said an end to the war would not be complete ‚Äúwithout the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the territories it occupied in this war.‚Äù ‚ÄúAny military attack by the Zionist regime on Lebanon from now on and the continued occupation of Lebanese territories from now on will be considered a violation of the memorandum of understanding in our view,‚Äù he added. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said his country‚Äôs forces will remain in Lebanon, Syria and Gaza ‚Äúas long as necessary.‚Äù Following the deal announcement on Monday, Lebanese militant group Hezbollah said it had attacked Israeli forces trying to advance in southern Lebanon. The deal between Iran and the United States is expected to be signed on Friday in Switzerland. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON RELATED UPDATE Hezbollah says attacked ‚Äòadvancing‚Äô Israeli force in southern Lebanon UPDATE Hezbollah says US-Iran agreement covers Lebanon, warns Israel against violations Latest Updates In Bangladesh camps, World Cup brings temporary normality to Rohingya kids Authorities say at least 9 dead, 25 hurt after a train and bus collide in Zimbabwe Saudi program trains Yemeni telecom staff in Aden UN says 2.4 million refugees need resettling in 2027 UK govt opposes private rescue bid for Thames Water Editor‚Äôs Choice WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria EN
