Arab News Saturday . July 11, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Books Child injured as Israeli forces raid several homes in Hebron Previous Pause Next Home US delegation in Lebanon to discuss Israel ‘pilot zone’ withdrawal US delegation in Lebanon to discuss Israel ‘pilot zone’ withdrawal A vehicle damaged by an Israeli strike in the southern Lebanese village of Kfar Roummane on Friday. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/9phm8 Updated 11 July 2026 23:06 AFP July 11, 2026 12:37 Follow American military officials hold meetings with Lebanese army command to discuss mechanisms for implementing Israeli withdrawal from some areas Latest talks between Lebanon and Israel will take place in Rome next Wednesday and Thursday BEIRUT: A US military delegation met with Lebanon’s army in Beirut to discuss the implementation of Israel’s withdrawal from a “pilot zone” in occupied territory, a Lebanese military official told AFP on Saturday. Under a framework agreement reached on June 26, Israel will gradually withdraw from areas of southern Lebanon where it has deployed troops to fight Hezbollah, the Iran-backed Shia movement. As part of the agreement, the long-disempowered Lebanese military will take full control of two small areas dubbed pilot zones. “The American military delegation arrived and began meetings with the Lebanese army command to discuss the mechanisms for implementing the first pilot zone from which the Israelis will withdraw, allowing the Lebanese army to deploy,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “This is the main objective the American military delegation is bringing to Lebanon... it is the translation and implementation of the framework agreement.” US ambassador Michel Issa told President Joseph Aoun on Thursday that the American delegation was coming to “determine the mechanism” for the deal’s implementation. In Washington, a US official had said on condition of anonymity that “the first pilot zone will launch in a matter of days, and further pilot zones are being mapped out and planned.” US Central Command will coordinate on the zones with both countries, he said. The agreement — rejected by Hezbollah — does not set a timetable for Israel’s withdrawal, and Israeli officials have also vowed that their forces will remain in a “security zone” 10 kilometers (six miles) deep as long as Hezbollah remains armed. The war, which began in early March when Hezbollah entered the wider Middle East conflict on the side of its backer Iran, displaced more than a million people in Lebanon, according to the UN’s humanitarian agency OCHA. On Saturday the agency said more than 732,000 people had now returned home, up from 640,000 a week before. That leaves more than 430,000 still displaced, it added. Israel has pursued intermittent strikes despite a truce, with Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency reporting several in the south on Saturday, including in Mansouri, where seven people were wounded. The latest talks between Lebanon and Israel, which have no formal relations but have met for five rounds of negotiations since the start of the war, will take place in Rome next Wednesday and Thursday. Lebanon had initially conditioned its participation on Israel withdrawing from two pilot zones. But a Lebanese official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed to AFP on Saturday that “Lebanon will participate,” without offering further details. The talks precede Aoun’s expected visit to Washington later this month at the invitation of his American counterpart Donald Trump. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON WAR IN IRAN RELATED Israeli strike on southern Lebanon kills one VIDEO US ambassador to Lebanon foresees Israeli withdrawal Latest Updates Death toll in Venezuela earthquakes surpasses 4,300 ‘France should fear Spain’ in Tuesday’s semifinal Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 Al-Shaibani: Syria-Qatar partnership supports regional development and stability Child injured as Israeli forces raid several homes in Hebron Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
