Arab News Wednesday . July 15, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport World Spain advances to World Cup final with 2-0 win over France Previous Pause Next Home US reimposes its blockade on Iran after Tehran’s attacks on ships in the Strait of Hormuz US reimposes its blockade on Iran after Tehran’s attacks on ships in the Strait of Hormuz Previous 0 seconds of 49 secondsVolume 0% The US first imposed the blockade in mid-April. (Reuters/File) Next Short Url https://arab.news/pyqgm Updated 15 July 2026 10:25 AP July 15, 2026 10:20 Follow The US first imposed the blockade in mid-April and then lifted it in mid-June DUBAI: The US military early Wednesday reimposed a blockade on Iranian ports over Tehran’s attacks on ships trying to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, sparking new strikes on nations hosting American forces as an interim deal to end the war further unraveled. Days of retaliatory strikes across the Middle East by Iran — and both nations’ attempts to vie for control of the waterway through which a fifth of the world’s oil and natural gas passes during peacetime — threaten to push the region back to all-out war. The US first imposed the blockade in mid-April and then lifted it in mid-June, a day after signing the interim deal that set a 60-day period for negotiations over issues like Iran’s nuclear program, but talks have stalled as fighting over the strait has intensified. When US President Donald Trump announced the return of the blockade Monday, he also said he would impose a 20 percent fee on ships passing through the strait. But he dropped the plan to collect fees hours before resuming the blockade, citing requests from allies in the Arabian Gulf. 0 seconds of 43 secondsVolume 0% Both US and Iran launched attacks as blockade reimposed The US carried out another wave of strikes as it reimposed the blockade, striking dozens of targets over seven hours, the US military’s Central Command said Wednesday. Missile alert warnings went out in Bahrain and Kuwait early Wednesday morning as they faced incoming Iranian fire, something that’s been a daily occurrence, further straining a ceasefire in the war. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said they struck facilities used by the US Fifth Fleet in Bahrain, state television reported Wednesday, after US strikes on Iranian territory. “The NSI Management Center, Command and Control Center, Major Military Parts and Equipment Warehouses, and Fuel Storage Facilities of the US Fifth Fleet in Bahrain Were Crushed,” the Guards said in a statement carried by state television IRIB. US Navy Adm. Brad Cooper, who leads Central Command, said in a statement that Iran had launched dozens of missiles and drones at neighboring Gulf Arab countries. “US forces are holding Iran accountable for unwarranted aggression that continues to endanger innocent lives,” Cooper said. There are at least 19 US warships in the Arabian Sea, including two aircraft carriers and an amphibious assault ship with more than 1,000 Marines aboard. Central Command also said in a social media post that there are “hundreds of military aircraft operating across the Middle East.” When the US and Israel launched the war on Iran on Feb. 28, Tehran effectively shut the passage by attacking and threatening ships. That sent the price of oil, fertilizer and other goods soaring. Iran has more recently attacked ships moving through the strait on a route near Oman overseen by the US military that is outside Tehran’s control, setting off the recent violence. The US has threatened to reopen the strait by force — but experts say that would require a much bigger armada if not tens of thousands of ground troops. Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, Amir Saeid Iravani, criticized America’s ongoing attacks targeting his country. “The US is the aggressor, not the victim,” he wrote to the world body’s leader, according to the state-run IRNA news agency. At least seven personnel ​were killed in US strikes on an Iranian military base in Bampur overnight, ‌Iran’s army ‌said ​on ‌Wednesday, ⁠according ​to the semi-official ⁠Tasnim news agency. The army said the strikes were ⁠intended to cause ‌maximum casualties, ‌with ​13 ‌missiles hitting ‌a guesthouse, guard posts and accommodation facilities at the ‌base near the southeastern city of ⁠Iranshahr. It ⁠added that a number of personnel were also wounded and promised a “decisive response” to the attack. Trump says he’s replacing the fees with Gulf investments Trump said Tuesday that he was called by the region’s “kings and emirs,” who suggested an alternate arrangement to charging ships fees to pass through the strait like the president proposed a day earlier. “They said we’d love to do it a different way. We’d love to invest in the United States with billions and billions of dollars,” Trump told reporters Tuesday in the Oval Office. Trump said he preferred that arrangement to charging tolls “because I don’t think anybody should be able to charge a fee for the strait.” It was unclear if the investment deals would be new commitments relative to what Trump announced after a visit last year to the Middle East. Trump’s plan to charge fees would have been a change to longstanding American policy and a departure from US promises that the strait would remain open to all without tolls. Trump told Fox News Channel on Tuesday night that more US strikes against Iran were coming over the next two days and that bridges and power plants could be targets by next week unless negotiations resume. Already, the US has struck at least one bridge. “You better make a deal, or you’re not going to have anything left,” Trump warned. Strikes and counterstrikes resume across the Mideast Jordan’s army said Wednesday it had shot down three missiles from Iran, as Tehran pressed attacks on US allies in response to American strikes. “Air defense systems intercepted and shot down three ballistic missiles at dawn on Wednesday after they entered Jordanian airspace from Iranian territory,” the army said in a statement, adding that there were no casualties or material damage. US Central Command said it struck several areas in Iran earlier Tuesday; Tehran acknowledged the strikes but provided no overall casualty or damage assessments. Hours after the US said it ended its strikes, the Iranian city of Bushehr on the Arabian Gulf was hit in at least four locations, the IRNA news agency reported. Explosions in the southwestern city of Ahvaz and the southern port city of Bandar Abbas also were reported by Iranian state media Tuesday night. The attacks again raised the possibility that Gulf Arab states were retaliating against Iran without discussing it in public. Kuwait separately said an Iranian attack wounded four members of its navy Tuesday and set a building on fire. The interim peace deal is in peril Under the interim deal, Iran agreed that passage through the strait would remain free of charge for 60 days — but the agreement left open what would happen after. Iran asserts it has the right to manage traffic and potentially charge fees. The US has disputed that. The price for a barrel of Brent crude oil, the international standard, briefly topped $87 early Tuesday, still well below the nearly $120 reached at the height of the war. The price dipped to $78 in the aftermath of Trump’s announcement that he had changed course. Regional mediators meanwhile are still trying to get the United States and Iran back to the negotiating table, according to two regional officials. The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the delicate diplomatic process, said Pakistan-led mediation was working around the clock to reactivate the ceasefire. – with AFP Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED Iran-linked vessels pass through Hormuz ahead of US blockade Bahrain urges ‘firm’ UN Security Council response to Houthi and Iranian ‘blackmail’ attacks Latest Updates Oil prices rise as hostilities worsen in the Middle East G7 urges halt to attacks in Sudan’s El-Obeid, calls for wider arms embargo Tehran threatens to halt all Mideast energy exports after US reimposes its blockade on Iran Spain advances to World Cup final with 2-0 win over France Argentina and England collide with World Cup final spot at stake Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare EN
