Arab News Saturday . July 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Sport Middle East Vietnam floods and landslides kill at least 4 Previous Pause Next Home Kuwait reports injuries and damage to power and water plants after Iranian attack Kuwait reports injuries and damage to power and water plants after Iranian attack Kuwait accused Iran on Saturday of targeting civilian sites and vital infrastructure in the country, after reporting attacks on an oil facility and a power and water plant. (Reuters/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/ynh3w Updated 18 July 2026 17:09 ARAB NEWS July 18, 2026 17:03 Follow The strikes resulted in significant material damage and some injuries Kuwait accused Iran on Saturday of targeting civilian sites and vital infrastructure KUWAIT CITY: Kuwait Petroleum Corporation on Saturday said one of its oil facilities was hit by “repeated Iranian attacks” amid an escalation in hostilities between the US and Iran and the subsequent spillover across the Middle East. The strikes resulted in significant material damage and some injuries, according to the Kuwait News Agency. It added that Iran struck another of its power and water plants, leading to the deactivation of several power generation units, a day after a similar attack. Firefighters tending to the blaze and a worker have been injured in the attack, according to the Kuwaiti fire department. Kuwait accused Iran on Saturday of targeting civilian sites and vital infrastructure in the country, after reporting attacks on an oil facility and a power and water plant. “The repeated targeting of these vital facilities reveals a systematic hostile approach targeting civilian sites and vital infrastructure that endangers the lives and safety of civilians,” the foreign ministry said. US forces launched strikes against Iran for a seventh night in a row on Friday. Iran has retaliated by striking non-warring Gulf parties, with Bahrain and Kuwait coming under drone and missile attacks, as well as bases in Jordan. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN US KUWAIT RELATED UPDATE US, Iran trade attacks for seventh straight night as strikes spread across Middle East Kuwait air defenses intercept Iranian drone attacks Latest Updates Kuwait reports injuries and damage to power and water plants after Iranian attack New Zealand beats Ireland 40-21 to stay unbeaten in the Nations Championship Vietnam floods and landslides kill at least 4 Spain’s World Cup winner Capdevila seeks Trump’s help after US entry denial Iraq, US sign 48 agreements during PM’s visit Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development EN
