Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East Media World Misinformation inciting harm to refugees: UN Previous Pause Next Home Syria president says relying on French help to stop Israeli escalations Syria president says relying on French help to stop Israeli escalations Previous 0 seconds of 26 secondsVolume 0% Syrian President Ahmed Al-Sharaa shakes hands with France's President Emmanuel Macron following press conference in Damascus on July 7, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/6wu72 Updated 07 July 2026 18:27 AFP July 07, 2026 10:18 Follow Al-Sharaa announced an agreement with Macron to install ambassadors President saluted Macron’s “courage” for continuing his visit after Damascus bombings DAMASCUS: Syria’s President Ahmed Al-Sharaa said Tuesday that he is counting on an “active French role” to halt Israeli escalations against his country. During a joint press conference with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron in Damascus, Al-Sharaa condemned “systematic Israeli attacks,” saying “we are counting on an active French role to stop this escalation and ensure respect for international agreements.” Al-Sharaa also announced an agreement with Macron to reappoint ambassadors, with the French embassy in Damascus closed since 2012 during the country’s bloody civil war. “I am pleased to announce today our agreement to begin the process of exchanging resident ambassadors between Damascus and Paris as soon as possible, signaling the return of diplomatic relations to their normal state,” Al-Sharaa said. Macron, meanwhile, said that France is ready to ​help rebuild Syria’s economy and banking sector. “We ‌want ​to ‌continue working on ‌the restructuring of the banking sector,” Macron said ‌at the news conference alongside Al-Sharaa. France was working on helping the Syrian central bank, Macron added. The French president added that Syria should not let the blasts that wounded 18 people during his landmark visit to Damascus on Tuesday affect the country’s stability. Macron called to “not let ourselves be destabilized” after the attacks, while Al-Sharaa saluted Macron’s “courage” for continuing his visit after the bombings. Follow Topics: FALL OF ASSAD SYRIA FRANCE MACRON RELATED Syria records 10,791 fires as Civil Defense battles blazes, road crashes UPDATE VIDEO Syria president hails France’s ‘constructive role’ in transition as Macron visits Latest Updates A journey through 28 letters: Riyadh exhibition traces story of Arabic from ancient inscriptions to modern technology Macron’s Damascus visit signals French bid for influence in new Syria, analysts say Cuba struggles to restore power to island following nationwide grid collapse Misinformation inciting harm to refugees: UN UK spends $254 million on long-range Precision Strike Missile program Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
