Arab News Wednesday . June 17, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Business & Economy Middle East US-Iran deal can be ‘game changer’, says Canadian PM Previous Pause Next Home Israeli settlers torched West Bank mosque: Palestinian official Israeli settlers torched West Bank mosque: Palestinian official Previous 1 / 3 A Palestinian man rinses the soles of his shoes from soot after inspecting the damage inside a mosque reportedly burnt by Israeli settlers over night in the West Bank village of Jiljlia, on June 17, 2026. (AFP) 2 / 3 A Palestinian man inspects the damage inside a mosque reportedly burnt by Israeli settlers over night on the West Bank village of Jiljlia on June 17, 2026. (AFP) 3 / 3 Palestinian residents inspect the damage inside a mosque reportedly burnt by Israeli settlers over night on the West Bank village of Jiljlia on June 17, 2026. (AFP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/wkdkj Updated 17 June 2026 12:17 AFP June 17, 2026 09:09 Follow Incident comes amid an increase in attacks against Palestinian communities by settlers in the West Bank The Hilltop Youth are a group of Israelis in the West Bank who are regularly accused of violence toward Palestinians JILJILIYA, Palestinian Territories: Israeli settlers set fire to a mosque in a West Bank village on Wednesday, the local mayor said, while AFP journalists at the site saw signs of arson and vandalism. The incident comes amid an increase in attacks against Palestinian communities by settlers in the Israeli-occupied West Bank since the start of the Gaza war in 2023. Osama Abdullah, head of the village council in Jiljiliya, north of Ramallah, told AFP that “settlers set fire to the ablution room, caused damage to the village’s main mosque, and scrawled hostile slogans on the outer walls.” Israel’s military did not immediately respond to an AFP request for comment. AFP journalists who visited the mosque on Wednesday reported that the ceiling, walls and floors were blackened by smoke and flames. They said graffiti in Hebrew had been scrawled on the walls, including some reading “vengeance” and “hi from the Hilltop Youth.” The Hilltop Youth are a group of Israelis in the West Bank who are regularly accused of violence toward Palestinians they seek to evict from areas they wish to take over. Mayor Abdullah said settlers arrived to burn down the mosque between 2am and 3am but found its door was locked, so instead set fire to a room dedicated to ablutions on a lower floor. He said Palestinian civil defense crews, along with young men from the village and neighboring areas, extinguished the blaze. Israel has occupied the West Bank since 1967. More than 500,000 Israeli settlers live in the territory, excluding east Jerusalem, among some three million Palestinians. Settlements, which are illegal under international law, have sprouted all over the West Bank since the right-wing government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took office, which contains many pro-settlement ministers in its ranks. The United Nations recently warned that settler violence in the West Bank has reached record levels, with an average of six attacks daily causing casualties or damage. Locals allege that Israelis act outside the law with impunity. Follow Topics: WAR ON GAZA WEST BANK ISRAEL RELATED The economy in the occupied West Bank is being dismantled, report says VIDEO Israel sends West Bank settlement funding plan to security cabinet Latest Updates UN food aid agency gets $800 million grant from US after funding cuts Saudi Council of Economic and Development Affairs holds meeting via video conference US-Iran deal can be ‘game changer’, says Canadian PM International Islamic Trade Finance Corp. signs agreements with Gambia, Tajikistan, and IFC Philippines says floating platform removed from Scarborough Shoal Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? EN
