Arab News Thursday . June 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Middle East World Offbeat Saudi Arabia Israel seized more land from neighbors since 2023 than it has in decades An ancient oak tree said to have sheltered legendary Robin Hood has died Previous Pause Next Home Israel military says will keep operating in south Lebanon Israel military says will keep operating in south Lebanon Lebanese army forces set up a checkpoint at the entrance of the village of Ghandourieh in southern Lebanon. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/brwte Updated 18 June 2026 15:27 AFP June 18, 2026 12:15 Follow The Israeli military published a map of its declared “security zone” which runs some 10 kilometers inside Lebanese territory JERUSALEM: The Israeli military said on Thursday it will continue operating in southern Lebanon and “remove threats” beyond its so-called security zone, after the US and Iran signed an agreement to end the Middle East war, including in Lebanon. The military published a map of its declared “security zone” — which runs some 10 kilometers (six miles) inside Lebanese territory. It said troops would continue to be deployed there “to remove threats and strengthen the defense of Israel’s northern residents.” In a later statement, an Israeli military official said the army “will continue to remove threats to IDF soldiers and the civilians of the State of Israel that are identified beyond the security zone.” The announcement came after the United States and Iran signed a memorandum of understanding on Wednesday meant to end the Middle East war, with fighting supposed to be halted on all fronts, including in Lebanon. Hours after the agreement was signed, Lebanese state media reported one person killed in an Israeli drone strike in southern Lebanon. Israel’s military meanwhile announced the death of one of its soldiers the night before during an incident in south Lebanon that also left seven other troops wounded. The military official on Thursday called on the Lebanese Armed Forces to operate in coordination with Israeli forces and urged Lebanese civilians to avoid entering the security zone. Since Iran and the US announced they had reached an agreement on Monday, there has been a sharp decrease in the level of violence in Lebanon. Hezbollah, an Iran-backed militant group, drew Lebanon into the Middle East war in March by attacking Israel to avenge the killing of the Islamic republic’s supreme leader at the start of the US-Israeli campaign. Israel retaliated with broad strikes across Lebanon and by launching a ground invasion into the south, which borders Israel and has long been under Hezbollah’s sway. Lebanon and Israel have been holding direct talks in Washington since April, seeking to end the hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah and separate their conflict from the wider regional war. “Further steps are still being discussed within the framework of direct negotiations between Israel and Lebanon,” the Israeli military official said on Thursday, adding that “the representatives will reconvene next week.” Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED Israel seized more land from neighbors since 2023 than it has in decades Latest Updates Russia returns 522 bodies to Ukraine Israel seized more land from neighbors since 2023 than it has in decades An ancient oak tree said to have sheltered legendary Robin Hood has died Iran president touts ‘historic’ deal with US ending war Indians turn back to medieval stepwells as water runs low Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit EN
