Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Cricket World Middle East France flags 2027 budget squeeze as defense and debt costs surge Previous Pause Next Home Syria foils attempt to smuggle weapons to Hezbollah from Iraq, state news agency says Syria foils attempt to smuggle weapons to Hezbollah from Iraq, state news agency says UPDATE Members of Iraq's security forces stand guard on the the al-Rabia border crossing with Syria. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/r8tus Updated 16 July 2026 15:43 REUTERS July 16, 2026 08:12 Follow Syria’s General Authority of Ports and Customs said the rocket and drone shipment was concealed inside “one of the oil tanker-trucks headed to the city of Baniyas“ Following the seizure, Iraq said it would form a high-level committee to investigate the incident DUBAI: Syrian authorities said on Thursday they had foiled an attempt to smuggle advanced weapons and missiles across the border from Iraq, with state news agency SANA citing an Interior Ministry source as saying the shipment appeared destined for militant group Hezbollah. Syria’s General Authority of Ports and Customs said the rocket and drone shipment was concealed inside “one of the oil tanker-trucks headed to the city of Baniyas.” It was discovered during routine inspection ‌procedures at ‌the Al-Tanf border crossing between Syria and ‌Iraq ⁠after customs officers ⁠subjected the suspected vehicle to a more thorough search. Following the seizure, Iraq said it would form a high-level committee to investigate the incident. The military’s Joint Operations Command said Baghdad would coordinate with Syrian authorities to establish the full circumstances of the attempted smuggling, hold those responsible ⁠to account, and strengthen security along the shared ‌border to prevent similar ‌incidents. Hezbollah did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The ‌Baniyas route has become an increasingly important corridor for ‌fuel movements between Iraq and Syria. Reuters reported last month that Iraq was preparing to expand exports through Syria to include crude oil and naphtha, building on an existing arrangement under ‌which fuel oil is transported overland to Baniyas for onward export. Iraqi officials have said ⁠the initiative ⁠is part of a government strategy to diversify export routes beyond the Gulf. US President Donald Trump said in June he had spoken to Syrian President Ahmed Al-Sharaa about combating Hezbollah, which is fighting Israel in Lebanon. The former rebels who now run Syria fought against Hezbollah for years as it was sending fighters to support Syria’s then-president, Bashar Assad, in a civil war. Lebanese President Joseph Aoun’s office said Sharaa had assured him Syria would not take sides in Lebanon’s internal affairs. Follow Topics: SYRIA IRAQ HEZBOLLAH RELATED Senior Daesh security leader in Syria lived ‘semi-permanently’ in Lebanon Iraq PM condemns ‘drone attack’ over Erbil: statement Latest Updates Italian court begins delivering verdicts in trial over 2018 bridge collapse that killed dozens Hill climb championship heads back to Aqabat Al-Muhammadiyah France flags 2027 budget squeeze as defense and debt costs surge US expands attacks deeper into Iran as Tehran retaliates against Jordan, Bahrain and Kuwait Saudi residential sales rise 18% annually in June: REGA Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
