Arab News Wednesday . June 24, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia Offbeat World Lebanon transfers 128 Syrian convicts home under agreement Previous Pause Next Home Iran-Gulf-Iraq talks to focus on future Hormuz operations Iran-Gulf-Iraq talks to focus on future Hormuz operations Sultan of Oman Haitham bin Tariq Al Said, right, meets Qatari ‌Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani in Muscat on June 24, 2026. (Oman News Agency via Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/5k6fa Updated 24 June 2026 16:10 REUTERS June 24, 2026 12:05 Follow Gulf states expected to push for no tolls Separate plans for Riyadh-based regional reconciliation talks underway Earlier Wednesday, Oman designated temporary routes for Hormuz transit LONDON/DUBAI: Qatari ‌Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani visited Muscat on Wednesday for talks with Oman on initiating negotiations involving Iran, Iraq and Gulf Arab states on the Strait of Hormuz, a diplomat briefed on the talks told Reuters. The discussions are separate from US-Iran peace talks and de-mining arrangements. Gulf states are expected to push for no transit fees, while Iran could propose environmental, navigation and security fees, the diplomat said. The Strait of Hormuz, a vital route for roughly a fifth of global oil and liquefied natural gas supplies, has been heavily disrupted since the United States and Israel launched a war against Iran on February 28, curbing commercial shipping and rattling global energy markets. The move appears to implement a provision of the memorandum of understanding signed last week that calls for Iran to hold talks with Oman and other Gulf states and Iraq on the future management of navigation and maritime services in the strait. The diplomat added that Pakistan was the proposed mediator for these talks. Separately, there are plans for regional reconciliation talks to be held in Riyadh between Iran, Gulf Arab states and possibly other regional countries, he said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN IRAQ RELATED UPDATE Trump: Iran says no tolls or charges on Strait of Hormuz Qatar says US-Iran hotline crucial for Hormuz reopening Latest Updates Parks, heritage sites, festivals boost summer tourism across Saudi regions Closing Bell: Saudi main index edges down to 11,007; Nomu gains Iran-Gulf-Iraq talks to focus on future Hormuz operations Lebanon transfers 128 Syrian convicts home under agreement Saudi wildlife center documents rare fish migration Editor’s Choice WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
