Arab News Thursday . July 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Lifestyle Saudi Arabia Middle East Inside the Riyadh cafe transforming how fans watch football in Saudi Arabia Previous Pause Next Home Saudi Arabia and UAE condemn Iranian attacks on Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain Saudi Arabia and UAE condemn Iranian attacks on Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain Previous 0 seconds of 38 secondsVolume 0% UPDATE Screengrab from a video shared on social media by the US military's Central Command shows US Navy warships and jets patrolling waters across the Middle East amid Iran's threats to attack targets in neighboring states. (X: @CENTCOM) Next Short Url https://arab.news/65c6p Updated 09 July 2026 15:28 AGENCIES July 09, 2026 12:50 Follow Qatar briefly issued a security alert before its Interior Ministry announced that the threat had ended Fresh strikes raise fears of wider Gulf conflict after US attacks on Iran Jordanian government spokesperson Dr Mohammad Al Momani said air raid sirens were activated by the Public Security Directorate on Thursday following reports of the Kingdom's airspace being breached by missiles launched from Iran, which were intercepted and dealt with. Al Momani added the Jordanian Armed Forces remain on high alert, ready to address any threats as he urged citizens and residents to adhere to governmental guidelines and avoid spreading false news. In a phone with his Kuwaiti countrepart on Thursday, Saudi Foreign Minister condemned the Iranian attacks on Kuwait and Bahrain reiterating the need to return to dialogue and halt in escalations. The United Arab Emirates also condemned the attacks, affirming they constitute a flagrant violation of the sovereignty of the Kingdom of Bahrain and the State of Kuwait adding its support for all measures taken to preserve their security and stability. Kuwait and Bahrain said their air defenses had responded to “hostile missile and drone attacks” early Thursday, hours after the Iranian military vowed to hit back in response to another round of US airstrikes against Iran. “The General Staff of the Army notes that any explosions heard are a result of air defense systems intercepting hostile attacks,” the Kuwait military said in a post on X, without specifying their origin. Explosions were heard in Bahrain’s capital on Thursday, an AFP correspondent in Manama said, moments after authorities sounded air raid sirens to warn of an attack. At least one person was injured on Thursday, Kuwait’s defense ministry said, following the latest Iranian attack on the country. 0 seconds of 30 secondsVolume 0% “The injured individual is receiving the necessary medical care and is in stable condition,” defense ministry spokesman Col. Staff Saud Abdulaziz Al-Atwan said, adding that four missiles and 10 drones had been “successfully intercepted and neutralized” at dawn. Qatar also issued an alert but the Ministry of Interior, in a statement carried by the Qatar News Agency, later announced “the end of the security threat.” Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin ​Abdulrahman al-Thani told Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi in a phone call on Thursday ‌that Iran ‌and ​the United ‌States ⁠should ​commit to ⁠diplomacy. Sheikh Mohammed bin ​Abdulrahman al-Thani added that the Washington and Tehran should implement the signed memorandum ⁠of understanding aimed ‌at ‌ending the ​war, ‌the Qatari foreign ‌minister said. The Qatari PM also held a call with his Saudi counterpart, Prince Faisal Al Farhan, where they reviewed the latest developments in the military escalation between the US and Iran over the past two days, reiterating the need to resume dialogue and a halt to the hostilities. A Qatari ⁠tanker ⁠was attacked in the Strait of Hormuz earlier the week. Al-Thani condemned the attack in the call, the foreign ministry ​said. The attacks came after Iran’s Revolutionary Guards vowed to retaliate following another round of US strikes on Iranian territory. Iranian state media later reported that the Guards had launched missiles and drones targeting two US military bases in Kuwait and two in Bahrain. The Bahrain Defence Force has said it will continue to defend itself against any further attacks from Iran. In a statement posted on its X.com account the general command of the defence said: “The General Command of the Bahrain Defence Force announces that Iran continues its systematic aggressive approach through its sinful attacks using missiles and drones targeting civilians in the Kingdom of Bahrain.” The statement went on to add that it clarified that: “with solid resolve and high combat readiness, the Air Defence systems of the Bahrain Defence Force intercepted and destroyed a number of treacherous Iranian aerial attacks this morning, Thursday, July 9, 2026.” A day earlier, Kuwait’s military said it had intercepted two missiles and 13 drones launched from Iran, underscoring the growing frequency of cross-border attacks as the confrontation between Tehran and Washington intensifies. The latest strikes follow Iranian attacks earlier this week on US military facilities in Kuwait and Bahrain, which drew widespread international condemnation and heightened concerns that the conflict could spread across the Gulf. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN STRAIT OF HORMUZ US NAVY RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Trump says interim accord to end Iran war is ‘over’, warns of new US strikes UPDATE VIDEO US Forces complete another round of strikes against Iran Latest Updates Kremlin rejects US claim Ukrainian strikes will help end war FIA launches MENA safety program Man arrested over North Ireland anti-Islam loyalist bonfire effigy Air quality a ‘social responsibility’ for developers, official says after $4.3m in fines Analysis: Has FIFA abandoned fair play? Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
