Arab News Sunday . June 14, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Business & Economy Saudi Arabia Middle East Books Football North Korea says ‘denuclearization’ is a matter terminated irreversibly Previous Pause Next Home Dozens protest peace deal outside Iran foreign ministry: media Dozens protest peace deal outside Iran foreign ministry: media In this file photo, Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi (center L) and Iran’s Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf (centre R) arrive in Islamabad on April 11, 2026 for the Pakistan-brokered talks with the US in a bid to end the war. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/2yygx Updated 14 June 2026 03:30 AFP June 13, 2026 20:16 Follow Protesters fault Iranian negotiators for making too many concessions to secure the deal Seek resignation of Parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and FM Abbas Araghchi PARIS: Dozens protested Saturday outside a foreign ministry office in Iran’s northeastern city of Mashhad, chanting slogans against top diplomat Abbas Araghchi after a televised interview in which he discussed signing a peace deal with the US. In a video shared by Fars news agency, women in black chadors chanted “death to dishonorable Araghchi, the infiltrator” in front of the building, while waving red and black flags. The protest comes as the peace deal touted by US President Donald Trump and mediator Pakistan faces opposition from hard-line Iranian figures. They argue that it does not serve Iran’s interests and would deprive Tehran of leverage over the Strait of Hormuz. They also accuse Iranian negotiators of having made too many concessions to secure the deal. In an interview with state television Friday, Araghchi had said the deal on the table called for the lifting of the US naval blockade on Iranian ports, imposed in response to Iran’s own blockade in the Strait of Hormuz. “The administration of Strait of Hormuz will no longer be the same as before,” he added, calling the waterway one of Iran’s “main instruments of deterrence.” Other videos on social media that AFP could not independently verify showed people in front of the foreign ministry building in Tehran chanting “Araghchi, resign” and “Ghalibaf, resign,” in reference to parliament speaker and chief negotiator Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf. Trump and Pakistan on Saturday said the deal to end the war could be signed as early as Sunday, though Tehran was more circumspect regarding the timing. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN SEYYED ABBAS ARAGCHI MOHAMMAD BAGHER GHALIBAF RELATED UPDATE Trump says US-Iran deal to be signed Sunday, Hormuz to open afterwards Iranians endure war fatigue and soaring prices as conflict deepens domestic woes Latest Updates Dozens protest peace deal outside Iran foreign ministry: media Guyana’s UN ambassador enters race for secretary-general North Korea says ‘denuclearization’ is a matter terminated irreversibly Amazon voiced concerns about Anthropic AI models before US government’s crackdown, source says​ Khoukhi equalizer secures historic point for Qatar in opener against Switzerland Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades EN
