Arab News Thursday . July 09, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Football Middle East Saudi Arabia Sport The Trump administration is ramping up pressure on states to change election practices Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon to attend Rome talks only if Israel withdraws from 2 ‘pilot’ zones: diplomatic source Lebanon to attend Rome talks only if Israel withdraws from 2 ‘pilot’ zones: diplomatic source The border wall separating Israel and Lebanon is pictured from northern Israel’s Upper Galilee region on May 29, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/4hegj Updated 09 July 2026 02:13 AFP July 09, 2026 01:47 Follow Israel and Lebanon have already held five rounds of US-sponsored talks in Washington aimed at ending the war with Hezbollah BEIRUT, Lebanon: Lebanon demands Israel’s withdrawal from two “pilot zones” in the south as a condition for participating in the next round of direct negotiations in Rome next week, a diplomatic source familiar with the talks told AFP on Wednesday. The two sides had previously met for five rounds of US-sponsored talks in Washington aimed at ending the war between Israel and Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah and paving the way for peace. They recently reached a framework agreement that calls for Hezbollah’s disarmament and a gradual Israeli withdrawal from occupied Lebanese territory while Lebanon’s army deploys into “pilot zones.” However, the agreement — rejected by Hezbollah — does not set a timetable for Israel’s withdrawal, and Israeli officials have also vowed that their forces will remain in a “security zone” 10 kilometers (six miles) deep as long as Hezbollah remains armed. The source, requesting anonymity, said “Lebanon is stipulating Israel’s withdrawal from two pilot zones in order to participate in the round of negotiations” that Italy said will take place in Rome on July 15 and 16. The Lebanese diplomatic source said the US State Department told the negotiating delegations that “reaching a framework agreement is the end of one phase and the beginning of a new one.” The next round — aiming for a permanent agreement — required the negotiators to be close to their countries “for consultation.” The source added that Israel was quick to accept Rome as the location for talks as an opportunity to “reduce the pressure” imposed on it by Washington during negotiations to reach the ceasefire and framework agreement. Lebanon’s contacts with the US meanwhile received guarantees that Washington would maintain “the same level of engagement in the negotiations and the same policy in managing the talks” in Rome. ‘Lasting solution’ The talks precede Lebanese President Joseph Aoun’s expected visit to Washington later this month, at the invitation of his US counterpart Donald Trump. Aoun said on Wednesday that the visit reflects “the United States’ support for the path to finding a lasting solution to the series of Israeli wars and attacks on our country.” The Lebanese presidency has not announced the date of the visit, but media reports suggest it will take place on July 21. Hezbollah drew Lebanon into the regional war on March 2 by attacking Israel, claiming it was acting in retaliation for the death of Iran’s supreme leader, killed in US-Israeli strikes on Iran on February 28. Israel responded with a large-scale bombing campaign and a ground offensive, killing more than 4,300 people and occupying territory near the border. The framework agreement followed an earlier deal between Tehran and Washington aimed at ending the wider regional war, which also established a ceasefire in Lebanon. Israel, however, still carries out occasional strikes on southern Lebanon, with two people killed in a strike on Wednesday. The diplomatic source said Beirut wants to “affirm its right and ability to negotiate on its own behalf” after Iran insisted on including Lebanon in its agreement with Washington. Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem reiterated the group’s rejection of the framework agreement. “Not a single clause of the agreement will pass,” he said in a speech at commemorations ahead of the burial Thursday of slain Iranian supreme leader Ali Khamenei. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL RELATED SPECIAL UN envoy pushes Lebanon-Israel truce consolidation as humanitarian crisis deepens Lebanon must remove Hezbollah threat from south: German minister Latest Updates Lebanon to attend Rome talks only if Israel withdraws from 2 ‘pilot’ zones: diplomatic source Trump says he will ask Supreme Court to rehear birthright citizenship case The Trump administration is ramping up pressure on states to change election practices UN launches appeal for nearly $300 mn in Venezuela quake relief Canadian PM arrives in Saudi Arabia Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability EN
