Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Media World Middle East Vatican excommunicates six ultraconservative bishops over ordination Previous Pause Next Home ‘Positive progress’ in US-Iran indirect talks in Doha: Qatar spokesman ‘Positive progress’ in US-Iran indirect talks in Doha: Qatar spokesman Qatar’s foreign ministry spokesman Majed Al-Ansari said US and Iran negotiators made “positive progress” during indirect talks in Doha. (AFP file photo) Short Url https://arab.news/jhbrg Updated 02 July 2026 13:58 AFP July 02, 2026 04:20 Follow Qatari official: ‘The parties agreed to continue discussions over the coming period’ Next meeting to be scheduled at the earliest possible time following the funeral processions of the former Iranian Supreme Leader DOHA: US and Iran negotiators made “positive progress” during indirect talks in Doha, with the next round expected after the late Iranian supreme leader’s funeral, Qatar’s foreign ministry spokesman said. “Qatar & Pakistan mediators concluded separate meetings with the US & Iranian negotiators in Doha today, with positive progress made on issues related to the Islamabad Memorandum of Understanding, building on the outcomes of the Lake Lucerne Summit,” foreign ministry spokesman Majed Al-Ansari said Wednesday on X. “The parties agreed to continue discussions over the coming period, with the next meeting to be scheduled at the earliest possible time following the funeral processions of the former Iranian Supreme Leader.” 0 seconds of 28 secondsVolume 0% US President Donald Trump hailed the progress of indirect talks between the United States and Iran in Qatar, as the sides aimed to push forward negotiations and quell tensions following exchanges of fire. Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi, who led Tehran’s delegation, later said the talks had concluded and that the sides had agreed to establish a communication channel by Thursday to report and record violations of their initial memorandum of understanding. Iran had insisted there would be no direct negotiations in Doha on the deal, which aims to end the war that began with US-Israeli strikes on Iran in late February. The memorandum of understanding, mediated by Qatar and Pakistan and sealed at a summit last month in Lucerne, Switzerland, includes a 60-day ceasefire, the reopening of the blockaded Strait of Hormuz and a timetable for a final deal on the war and Iran’s nuclear program. The Qatar discussions, held at a lower level and focused on implementing the memorandum, were meant to “build on the progress made at the Lake Lucerne Summit,” a diplomat told AFP on condition of anonymity. The discussions also covered frozen Iranian assets, whose release Tehran has demanded as part of any settlement. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN QATAR RELATED UPDATE VIDEO Trump hails ‘very good meetings’ as indirect Iran talks in Qatar conclude Qatar reaffirms mediation role in US-Iran talks after meeting with Witkoff Latest Updates Facing barbs and pressure from Trump, Europe’s leaders close ranks Expanding conflict drives record hunger in northern Nigeria: WFP Vatican excommunicates six ultraconservative bishops over ordination REVIEW: ‘The Sheep Detectives’ — a deliciously cozy crime caper for all ages Couple caned for kissing on TikTok in Indonesia’s conservative Aceh province Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
