Arab News Saturday . July 18, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport Middle East World Saudi Arabia Business & Economy Turkiye arrests 119 accused of links to Daesh Previous Pause Next Home GCC chief condemns Iranian attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan as ‘war crimes’ GCC chief condemns Iranian attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait, Jordan as ‘war crimes’ Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-General Jasem Mohamed Albudaiwi on Saturday condemned Iran’s recent attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait, and Jordan, describing the strikes on civilian infrastructure as “war crimes.” (GCC) Short Url https://arab.news/b6ngs Updated 18 July 2026 18:40 ARAB NEWS July 18, 2026 18:37 Follow Saudi Arabia has joined Arab states in denouncing deliberate targeting of civilian facilities Attacks follow latest escalation after Washington targets Iranian military sites RIYADH: Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-General Jasem Mohamed Albudaiwi on Saturday condemned Iran’s recent attacks on Bahrain, Kuwait, and Jordan, describing the strikes on civilian infrastructure as “war crimes.” He also said Iran’s actions “constitute a highly dangerous escalation, a grave violation of international law and the United Nations charter, as well as war crimes requiring international accountability and prosecution, given the deliberate targeting of infrastructure and civilian facilities.” The attacks came during the latest escalation between Iran and the US, after Washington launched a series of strikes on Iranian military targets. Iran responded by launching missiles and drones at US military installations and targets across the Gulf, with Bahrain, Kuwait, and Jordan reporting attacks or incursions into their airspace. Bahrain and Kuwait said their air defenses intercepted multiple missiles and drones targeting the two countries, while Jordan activated air raid sirens after missiles entered its airspace. The Jordanian Armed Forces said they intercepted the projectiles to protect civilians and the country’s sovereignty. The attacks drew widespread condemnation across the region, with Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Egypt, Qatar, and other Arab states denouncing the strikes as violations of the sovereignty of Bahrain, Kuwait, and Jordan and warning against further escalation. Albudaiwi reiterated the GCC’s solidarity with the three countries, stressing that the security of member states is “indivisible” and calling on the international community to take action to hold those responsible accountable. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN GCC RELATED Key reforms could unlock stronger GCC-CCA trade, IMF says Iraq will not allow attacks against Saudi Arabia, GCC countries from its territory: FM Latest Updates KSrelief distributes 1,681 food baskets in Khartoum Infantino’s enlarged World Cup gamble pays off with punters Turkiye arrests 119 accused of links to Daesh Saudi Arabia’s Tourism Package Visa puts visitor convenience first Saudi Arabia’s Ports Authority signs agreements worth $267m Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Can Iraq transform itself from regional battleground to diplomatic broker? MIDDLE EAST Why the mystery of Egypt’s pyramids still refuses to be solved SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development EN
