Arab News Saturday . July 11, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport World Books Child injured as Israeli forces raid several homes in Hebron Previous Pause Next Home Iran's foreign minister holds talks in Oman on Strait of Hormuz Iran's foreign minister holds talks in Oman on Strait of Hormuz UPDATE The visit will be focused on the Strait of Hormuz and shipping safety, reported Iran’s official news agency. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/4d2ny Updated 11 July 2026 22:59 REUTERS July 11, 2026 00:30 Follow Abbas Araghchi discusses arrangements for the safe passage of ships through the waterway with his Omani counterpart Oman’s state ‌news agency: Omani and Iranian negotiators will continue talks “at the technical and ​political levels” WASHINGTON/DUBAI: Iran’s Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi and his Omani counterpart on Saturday discussed arrangements for the safe passage ​of ships through the Strait of Hormuz, as Washington seeks a public pledge of free, secure transit. US President Donald Trump said on Friday the US and Iran had agreed to continue talks despite an escalation of hostilities this week, while also declaring an end to the ceasefire between the two countries. No attacks were reported on Friday or Saturday, however. A senior Iranian source told Reuters that Iran, the US, Qatar, and Pakistan had agreed to negotiate in a call that mediators were trying to arrange for Saturday while Araghchi is in Oman. It was not immediately clear whether the efforts were successful, but Araghchi and Omani Foreign Minister Badr Al-Busaidi “exchanged views on appropriate mechanisms for the safe passage of ships through the Strait of Hormuz,” in accordance with the ceasefire deal, according to a statement from the Iranian ‌foreign minister. Oman’s state ‌news agency later said that Omani and Iranian negotiators would continue talks “at the technical and ​political levels.” All lanes open Oman ‌is ⁠helping to ​mediate ⁠an end to a war that has destabilized the Gulf and raised prices around the world since the US and Israel launched airstrikes on Iran on February 28. About a fifth of the world’s oil supply transited through the Strait of Hormuz before the war, and Iran’s effective blockade of the waterway has caused energy prices to surge, fueling global inflation. The United States is demanding that Iran publicly state it will stop attacks on ships in the strait — and that all lanes will be open with no tolls through the waterway, senior US officials told reporters on Friday. CNN reported on Saturday that Oman made a draft proposal for the strait, including free navigation through its southern corridor in Omani territorial waters. ⁠The plan called for vessels transiting the northern corridor through Iranian territorial waters to obtain prior approval ‌from Iran, although no tolls would be imposed, CNN said. The White House and State ‌Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the CNN report.Three Qatari and Saudi commercial ‌tankers came under fire earlier in the week, prompting the US to hit Iranian sites, and Iran to respond with strikes ‌on US military sites in Gulf states. Araghchi accused the United States of violating the ceasefire agreement; the US revoked the license authorizing the sale of Iranian crude on Tuesday after the vessels were hit. “There can only be mutual compliance,” Araghchi wrote on X. 'Continue talks' While Iran has not claimed responsibility for the ship attacks, analysts say Tehran uses such actions to gain leverage in negotiations. The senior US officials told reporters on Friday that Iran had informed US officials ‌that recent attacks on shipping in the strait were from an “errant part of their system,” comments that appeared to be aimed at calming tensions. The flare-up cast further doubt over the future ⁠of an interim agreement aimed at ⁠ending the conflict and pushed oil prices higher, a politically sensitive issue for Trump ahead of November congressional elections. “The Islamic Republic of Iran has asked us to continue ‘talks.’ We have agreed to do so, but the United States has stated to them, in no uncertain terms, that the Cease Fire is OVER!” Trump posted on his Truth Social platform on Friday. A written statement from Iran’s new supreme leader, Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, on Saturday threatened vengeance for the death of his predecessor and father, who was killed on February 28. Released to mark funeral ceremonies for former leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Thursday, which the new leader did not attend, it said the vengeance would take place whatever happened to Iran. “We pledge to avenge the blood of the martyred leader and all the martyrs,” the message said. Trump had posted on Friday that he had ordered the US military to be prepared to launch thousands of missiles against Iran if Tehran attempted to assassinate him. The Wall Street Journal and other US media reported this week that Israel ​had shared intelligence with Washington that Iran had recently devised a ​plan to assassinate Trump. At the funeral ceremonies on Thursday, a huge crowd of mourners packed a courtyard, some bearing banners reading, “We Will Kill Trump.” Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN ABBAS ARAGHCHI STRAIT OF HORMUZ RELATED Iran using diplomacy to ‘manage crises, gain time,’ Bahrain tells UN Security Council Tanker traffic slows in Strait of Hormuz after US and Iran clashes Latest Updates ‘France should fear Spain’ in Tuesday’s semifinal Gaza death toll rises to 73,221 Al-Shaibani: Syria-Qatar partnership supports regional development and stability Child injured as Israeli forces raid several homes in Hebron Belgium coach Garcia’s tenure in doubt after Courtois substitution Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
