Arab News Saturday . June 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Sport Middle East Saudi Arabia World Loli Bahia fronts new YSL Beauty campaign Previous Pause Next Home Funeral for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Khamenei to begin July 4, burial set for July 9 Funeral for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Khamenei to begin July 4, burial set for July 9 UPDATE The ‌funeral for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei will begin in Tehran on July 4 and conclude with his burial in his hometown, the northeastern holy city of Mashhad, on July 9, state media reported on Saturday. (AFP/File) Short Url https://arab.news/bpc6w Updated 13 June 2026 18:07 REUTERS June 13, 2026 10:42 Follow The funeral arrangements will include ‌ceremonies ⁠on July 7 in ⁠the holy city of Qom Islamic law requires the deceased to be buried as soon as possible DUBAI: The ‌funeral for Iran’s late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei will begin in Tehran on July 4 and conclude with his burial in his hometown, the northeastern holy city of Mashhad, on July 9, state media reported on Saturday. Khamenei was killed on the first day of Israeli and US airstrikes against Iran on February 28. The 86-year-old cleric had been at the helm of the Islamic Republic ‌for 36 ‌years. The funeral arrangements will include ‌ceremonies ⁠on July 7 in ⁠the holy city of Qom, south of Tehran, media said. Islamic law requires the deceased to be buried as soon as possible, and ideally within 24 hours of death, but exceptions are allowed, for example in time of war. During his ⁠rule, Khamenei built Iran into a ‌powerful anti-US force, spreading ‌its military sway across the Middle East through proxy forces ‌such as Hezbollah in Lebanon, while using an ‌iron fist to crush outbreaks of unrest at home. Khamenei remained a strong critic of the United States throughout his rule, while successive US administrations tried unsuccessfully ‌to resolve a dispute with Iran over its nuclear program. The airstrike that killed ⁠him pulverised ⁠his central Tehran compound. His 56-year-old son Mojtaba, who also lost his wife in the airstrike and was himself injured, succeeded his father as Supreme Leader. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif said on Saturday that Iran and the United States had agreed on a framework for a peace deal after more than three months of war and are expected to sign the initial deal in the next 24 hours. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN FUNERAL RELATED World leaders react cautiously to US and Israeli strikes, death of Iran’s Ali Khamenei Iran’s Khamenei says enemy ‘defeated’ in defiant message Latest Updates Brazil enter the fray at the World Cup Tanker struck by unknown projectile 6 nautical miles east of Oman, UKMTO says Loli Bahia fronts new YSL Beauty campaign North Korea protests Seoul-EU rebuke of Russia ties Saudi World Cup fans buzzing in Miami as players countdown to Uruguay opener Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What do Iraq’s latest militia disarmament pledges really mean for state authority? BUSINESS & ECONOMY Iran war poses Middle East’s biggest economic shock in five decades WORLD How aid cuts are putting women at risk in Afghanistan and Yemen EN
