Arab News Thursday . July 02, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS World Middle East Sport American ecumenical leader accuses Israel of ‘systemic’ racial discrimination Previous Pause Next Home UN aid truck destroyed in Darfur drone strike as El-Obeid siege deepens UN aid truck destroyed in Darfur drone strike as El-Obeid siege deepens SPECIAL Displaced women from South Kordofan in El-Obeid, North Kordofan State, Sudan, Jan. 15, 2026. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/gmx2q Updated 02 July 2026 22:25 EPHREM KOSSAIFY July 02, 2026 22:14 Follow Incident comes amid escalating RSF attacks on North Kordofan capital Attack leaves thousands who depend on the assistance without urgently needed items, UN spokesman says NEW YORK: A UN refugee agency-contracted truck carrying humanitarian relief supplies was struck by a drone near Tendelti in White Nile state on Tuesday, destroying 50 metric tons of aid intended for vulnerable populations in South Kordofan, the UN spokesman’s office said Thursday . The driver escaped unharmed, but the destroyed cargo, which was being transported to Abu Jubeyha in South Kordofan, included 1,000 non-food item kits comprising 3,000 blankets, 2,000 jerry cans, 1,000 kitchen sets, 3,000 sleeping mats, 2,000 plastic sheets, and 1,000 solar lamps, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said. He said thousands of people who depend on the assistance would now go without urgently needed relief items. Dujarric told Arab News the UN had no information on which party was responsible for the drone strike. “We’ve seen different parties in this conflict use drones,” he said, noting that such devices are inexpensive and easy to operate. He added: “Why would anyone want to prevent people from getting blankets and plastic sheeting and the basic necessities that they need to survive? That’s a question I can’t even begin to answer.” The incident came as the UN voiced mounting concern over escalating violence across Sudan and worsening humanitarian needs. In White Nile State, humanitarian partners reported multiple drone strikes in Kosti city on Tuesday that injured at least three civilians, Dujarric said. Despite the challenges, aid operations continued in parts of the country. The World Health Organization said an 8.5-metric-ton convoy of medical supplies, including cholera kits, had joined an inter-agency convoy bound for Dilling and Kadugli in South Kordofan to help address growing health needs and strengthen outbreak preparedness, according to Dujarric. The attack on the aid truck coincided with a deepening crisis in El-Obeid, the North Kordofan capital. The paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have encircled the city and subjected it to near-daily drone strikes on infrastructure, including its power station, and fuel depots. The UN and rights groups have warned that as many as 500,000 civilians are at risk of atrocities if the RSF launches a ground assault, drawing comparisons to last October’s fall of El-Fasher in Darfur, which the UN said bore the hallmarks of genocide. The UN humanitarian affairs office, OCHA, reiterated its call for the protection of civilians and civilian infrastructure across Sudan and urged donors to scale up funding to meet the country’s escalating humanitarian needs. Follow Topics: SUDAN UNREST RELATED SPECIAL UN aid chief warns El-Obeid risks becoming ‘another El-Fasher’ as drone strikes escalate in Sudan Humanitarian disaster looms in Sudan as Rapid Support Forces encircle El-Obeid, UN warns Latest Updates StubHub sued by fans who say ticket cancelations crushed dreams of going to World Cup Saudi tourism turns to AI for smarter, more personalized travel Lebanese parliament speaker, UK’s deputy national security adviser meet for talks American ecumenical leader accuses Israel of ‘systemic’ racial discrimination Eight arrested in UK probe into men drugging, raping partners Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST Has the US-Iran war’s real cost been obscured by economic fallout? EN
