Arab News Sunday . July 12, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Football In Sicily, drones at work to predict volcanic eruptions Previous Pause Next Home Former emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, dies at 74 Former emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, dies at 74 Previous 1 / 5 Qatari Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani at a welcoming ceremony in Doha, Qatar. (AFP) 2 / 5 Palestinian President Yasser Arafat receives the emir of Qatar Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani (L) during the first visit of a Gulf Arab head of state to self-ruled Gaza Strip August 8, 1999. REUTERS/Ahmed Jadallah/File Photo 3 / 5 Qatar's Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani addresses the first meeting of his cabinet, in Doha, Qatar, October 30, 1996. REUTERS/File Photo 4 / 5 Qatar's Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani (C) walks beside members of a security team as he arrives to attend National Day celebrations in Doha, Qatar, December 18, 2012. REUTERS/Fadi Al-Assaad/File Photo 5 / 5 Qatar's Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani talks during the UNCTAD XIII opening ceremony in Doha, Qatar April 21, 2012. REUTERS/Mohammed Dabbous/File Photo Next Short Url https://arab.news/pkxg2 Updated 12 July 2026 11:12 AGENCIES July 12, 2026 05:10 Follow DUBAI: ​Qatari former Emir Sheikh ‌Hamad bin ‌Khalifa ​Al ‌Thani ⁠has ​died ⁠at the ⁠age ‌of ‌74, ​the ‌nation’s Amiri Diwan, ‌its top ‌government body, said ⁠on ⁠Sunday. “With hearts steadfast in faith in God's decree and destiny, the Bureau of the Emir mourns the great loss to the nation of the late -- may God have mercy on him -- His Highness the Father Amir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani,” read a statement published by the emir's office on social media. Sheikh Hamad, who stepped down in June 2013 after 18 years as emir, was the architect of Qatar’s stunning ambitions that turned it into an international crossroads in less than a generation. Sheikh Hamad attended Britain’s military academy, Sandhurst, and became commander of Qatar’s armed forces and defense minister. He was named crown prince in the late 1970s and gradually broadened his duties to include planning for Qatar’s vast oil and gas reserves. Sheikh Hamad was responsibe for overseeing the rapid transformation of Qatar into a modern state open to the world. He pushed Qatar Airways to expand into a major international carrier, trying to rival neighboring carrier Emirates. The country’s international airport in Doha, Qatar’s capital, which cost at least $15 billion to construct, also bears his name. Sheikh Hamad was the architect of Qatar’s effort to develop its liquefied natural gas (LNG) infrastructure that allowed ‌it to get its ‌vast gas reserves to global markets, turning the state into one of ​the ‌world’s ⁠largest exporters ​and ⁠laying the foundations for its vast wealth. He established media network Al Jazeera, which gave Qatar an outsized voice in Arab politics. He also oversaw the successful bid to host the 2022 soccer World Cup, a move that firmly put Qatar on the global stage and accelerated a decade of infrastructure building that remade the capital Doha. Sheikh Hamad had wide-ranging visions for Qatar’s role as a diplomatic broker. Over the years, its mediation was brought to bear on the conflict in Sudan’s western Darfur region, Lebanese factional feuding and the rift between the Palestinians’ Hamas and Fatah factions. Follow Topics: QATAR RELATED Iran attacks Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Jordan and UAE after fresh US strikes over Hormuz Al-Shaibani: Syria-Qatar partnership supports regional development and stability Latest Updates Oman posts $5.4bn trade surplus by end of April ’In our blood’: Palestinians keep horse culture alive against all odds US senator and Trump ally Lindsey Graham dies age 71 In Sicily, drones at work to predict volcanic eruptions Former emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, dies at 74 Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? WORLD How migration, terrorism and war are redrawing North Africa’s security map EN
