Arab News Thursday . July 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Sport 1 person dead and 23 missing after passenger boat sinks in Indonesia, authorities say Previous Pause Next Home Iran tells Houthis to close Bab El-Mandeb strait if US hits power network: Reports Iran tells Houthis to close Bab El-Mandeb strait if US hits power network: Reports Satellite imagery shows Bab El-Mandeb Strait, as Iran threatens using Yemen's Houthi allies to shut the gateway. (Reuters/File Photo) Short Url https://arab.news/4g8yu Updated 16 July 2026 17:54 REUTERS July 16, 2026 17:43 Follow A source close to the Houthis said the group had completed preparations to attack shipping by deploying missiles and drones near the strait DUBAI: Iran has asked Yemen’s Houthi militia to stand ready to close the Bab El-Mandeb oil route if the United States strikes Iranian power infrastructure, three sources told Reuters on Thursday, posing a potent new ​threat to global energy supplies. The idea has been discussed within the Islamic Republic’s leadership, and the message has been conveyed to Iran’s Houthi allies, two senior Iranian sources and a regional source familiar with the matter said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The sources said the Houthis had been informed recently of Tehran’s request, which has not been previously reported. They did not give further details on how it had been conveyed or whether it was after US President Donald Trump’s threat to attack Iranian power infrastructure on Tuesday. Iran’s foreign ministry and a spokesperson for the Houthi group were not immediately available to respond to Reuters’ request. Houthis deploy drones near Bab El-Mandeb, says source A source close to the Houthis said the group had completed preparations to attack shipping by deploying missiles and drones near Bab El-Mandeb strait, the gateway ‌to the Red ‌Sea, in Yemen’s highlands overlooking Hodeidah and the Gulf of Aden and was awaiting the order ​to ‌begin. With the Hormuz strait already shut, any Houthi attacks on vessels or ports in the Red Sea would leave the Middle East’s two main oil export routes disrupted simultaneously, opening a new front in both the energy crisis and Iran’s wider conflict with the US. Representatives of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) who are already in Yemen will control the decision on when to close the Bab El-Mandeb strait, said the source close to the Houthis. Iran views the Houthis as part of its regional “Axis of Resistance,” an alliance that also includes Lebanon’s Hezbollah and Iraqi Shiite armed groups that have already ​joined the regional conflict between Tehran and Washington. But the Houthis ​have not formally entered the fray. The US says Iran has provided the Houthis with weapons, funding and training, including support channelled through Hezbollah. Tehran has denied the accusation. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN IRAN YEMEN BAB EL-MANDEB STRAIT RELATED Ship in Bab el-Mandeb Strait attacked by suspected pirates, officials say Iran-linked vessels pass through Hormuz ahead of US blockade Latest Updates Revamped England bowl in 2nd ODI against India Jordan sends 26 aid trucks to support Lebanese people 1 person dead and 23 missing after passenger boat sinks in Indonesia, authorities say Bahri opens first integrated logistics facility at Jeddah port Riyadh governor receives Tanzanian ambassador Editor’s Choice SAUDI ARABIA How Saudi Arabia is promoting the waqf to help finance global development MIDDLE EAST Will Hamas concessions amount to a genuine transfer of power in Gaza? MIDDLE EAST Will the Israel-Lebanon framework agreement ease the agony of south Lebanon’s displaced? EN
