Arab News Thursday . June 25, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Business & Economy Middle East Lifestyle World Iraq to consider all options if OPEC quota is not raised, has weighed exit, sources say Previous Pause Next Home Israel, Lebanon deny that Israel has withdrawn from part of southern Lebanon Israel, Lebanon deny that Israel has withdrawn from part of southern Lebanon An Israeli army humvee vehicle patrols along the northern road near Moshav Margaliot in the Upper Galilee bordering Lebanon. (AFP) Updated 25 June 2026 12:29 REUTERS June 25, 2026 09:22 Follow Israel and Lebanon have been discussing a US-backed proposal for Israeli forces to transfer some of the Lebanese territory invaded in their war with Hezbollah to Lebanon‚Äôs military BEIRUT: Senior Israeli and Lebanese officials denied on Thursday that there had been any ‚ÄãIsraeli withdrawal from occupied southern Lebanon, after a US official said Israel had pulled some of its troops back in a good faith gesture toward Lebanon‚Äôs government. Israel and Lebanon have been discussing a US-backed proposal for Israeli forces to transfer some of the Lebanese territory invaded in their war with Hezbollah to Lebanon‚Äôs military, in ‚Äåa possible step ‚Äåtoward restoring Lebanese control of occupied ‚Äãterritory. The ‚Äúpilot ‚Äåzone‚Äù ‚ÅÝproposal ‚Äãhas been ‚ÅÝpart of the latest round of Israeli-Lebanese talks in Washington, which have gone on even as they appear to be eclipsed by Iran‚Äôs move to make Lebanon central to its own talks with the United States. A US State Department official said the pilot zone process was aimed ‚ÅÝat ensuring the complete and verifiable ‚Äådestruction of Hezbollah‚Äôs weapons and infrastructure ‚Äåand the dismantlement of non-state armed ‚Äãgroups. ‚ÄúIsrael has already taken ‚Äåa concrete step by pulling back from a part ‚Äåof its buffer zone. This is a significant demonstration of good faith toward Lebanon‚Äôs legitimate government,‚Äù the State Department official said. ‚ÄúThe (Lebanese Armed Forces) should now move in and verifiably clear out terrorist ‚Äåweapons and infrastructure. This model will be repeated across South Lebanon, enabling the safe return ‚ÅÝof displaced ‚ÅÝfamilies, reconstruction of the south, and the restoration of full Lebanese sovereignty,‚Äù the official added. A senior Israeli defense official told Reuters that Israel‚Äôs policy was clear and that the military would not be withdrawing from its so-called ‚Äúbuffer zone‚Äù in southern Lebanon. Asked about the State Department official‚Äôs comments, a senior Lebanese military official said developments on the ground in recent days ‚Äúshow the opposite of a pullback.‚Äù The official said Israeli forces had been enforcing ‚Äãtheir buffer zone against anyone ‚Äãapproaching it, including Lebanese army troops. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH RELATED Israeli strike on south Lebanon kills two, Hezbollah accuses it of truce ‚Äòviolation‚Äô Israeli army says contractor killed in Gaza ‚Äòaccident‚Äô Latest Updates Saudi FM arrives in Bahrain to participate in GCC-US meeting London forum to spotlight Saudi investment opportunities as BMG marks silver jubilee China state refiners considering resuming Iran oil imports, sources say Iraq to consider all options if OPEC quota is not raised, has weighed exit, sources say Rubio warns Hormuz tolls would ‚Äòspread like contagion‚Äô to other waterways Editor‚Äôs Choice WORLD What UK‚Äôs change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah‚Äôs influence ‚Äî the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? MIDDLE EAST Frankly Speaking: Is the Middle East at a diplomatic turning point? EN
