Arab News Friday . June 26, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Saudi Arabia Food & Health Sport Middle East Antoine Semenyo: Time for Ghana to pressure officials after big no-call Previous Pause Next Home Lebanon president: Israel deal first step to restoring sovereignty Lebanon president: Israel deal first step to restoring sovereignty Lebanese President Joseph Aoun welcomed a new framework agreement with Israel. (File/AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/c6vqh Updated 26 June 2026 23:33 AFP June 26, 2026 20:10 Follow Joseph Aoun says agreement will enable Lebanese “to return to their fully liberated lands" Prime Minister Nawaf Salam says the accord “aims to achieve Israel’s withdrawal from all Lebanese territory" BEIRUT: Lebanese President Joseph Aoun said a deal signed with Israel on Friday was a first step toward fully restoring his country’s sovereignty after the latest war between Israel and the Iran-backed Hezbollah. “The framework agreement signed today is a first step” that will enable Lebanese “to return to their fully liberated lands, and to their certainly rebuilt homes... under the sovereignty of the Lebanese state that has no partner in its sovereignty over its land and people,” Aoun said according to a statement released by his office. “We swear to continue to work until this is fully achieved. There will be no more occupation, prisoners, subordination or tutelage,” he added. Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam said the agreement “aims to achieve Israel’s withdrawal from all Lebanese territory, restore state sovereignty over it” and see the return of displaced Lebanese. “I look forward to the blessed moment when Israel begins to withdraw — so that our dear people can return to their homes with safety and dignity — and to the launch” of reconstruction efforts, Salam added, according to a statement. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON WAR IN IRAN RELATED DEVELOPING VIDEO Israel and Lebanon sign framework agreement in Washington Hezbollah lawmaker warns Lebanese authorities against enforcing Washington agreement with Israel Latest Updates Lebanon president: Israel deal first step to restoring sovereignty Antoine Semenyo: Time for Ghana to pressure officials after big no-call Saudi FM discusses regional developments with Jordanian, Omani counterparts Saudi Arabia bets on ‘red gold’ for agricultural growth Hezbollah lawmaker warns Lebanese authorities against enforcing Washington agreement with Israel Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Could Israel’s Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? WORLD What UK’s change of guard means for Middle East ties MIDDLE EAST What will rid Lebanon of Hezbollah’s influence — the US-Iran MoU or negotiations with Israel? EN
