Arab News Monday . July 13, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Saudi Arabia World UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Previous Pause Next Home UK unveils plan to ban Iran Revolutionary Guards: ministry UK unveils plan to ban Iran Revolutionary Guards: ministry Previous 0 seconds of 1 minute, 10 secondsVolume 0% Britain's Prime Minister Keir Starmer talks with a guest as he hosts a reception with the Jewish community to discuss efforts to tackle antisemitism, at Downing Street, in London, Britain, July 13, 2026. (Reuters) Next Short Url https://arab.news/2gu4c Updated 13 July 2026 23:15 AFP July 13, 2026 12:33 Follow “Anyone found supporting or assisting these groups will now face up to 14 years in prison,” Starmer said New legislation gives the British government “proscription-like” powers to designate foreign state proxies deemed a threat to Britain’s national security LONDON: The UK government announced plans on Monday to ban Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as a threat to national security, alongside an Iran-linked group accused of a series of attacks against the Jewish community. “Anyone found supporting or assisting these groups will now face up to 14 years in prison,” Prime Minister Keir Starmer said of a proposed law to be presented to parliament this week. The banned groups would also include proxies and volunteers of Russia’s GRU military intelligence agency, and the Islamic Movement of Companions of the Right (IMCR), an Iran-linked group which has claimed attacks on Jewish properties in London. The new legislation gives the British government “proscription-like” powers to designate foreign state proxies deemed a threat to Britain’s national security. “The move will step up the government’s ability to counter state threats linked to foreign powers including espionage, foreign interference in our democracy, sabotage and physical attacks,” the Home Office said in a statement. The new legislation will mean that prosecutors do not need to establish a foreign power connection in cases involving designated groups. “The United Kingdom has identified activity linked to the IRGC involving threats to life and intimidation on UK soil,” Home Office minister Angela Eagle said in a written statement. The announcement comes after several antisemitic attacks struck the British capital earlier this year, including a spate of arson attacks on synagogues, community ambulances and other Jewish sites. “The government fast-tracked legislation to bring in new powers after the abhorrent antisemitic attacks in north London,” the Home Office said in a statement. Last month, 22 countries including the UK, US and European nations blamed the IRGC and its foreign operations branch, the Quds Force, for plotting against Iranian dissidents, journalist and Jewish communities. The IMCR, also known as Harakat Ashab Al-Yamin Al-Islamiyah (HAYI), have claimed multiple attacks, including an arson attack against four ambulances of the Hatzola Jewish charity. “Iran and Russia are using proxies and thugs to do their dirty work on our shores. I have rapidly designated three groups so those working for them will be tracked down and put behind bars,” Home Secretary Shabana Mahmood said. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN RELATED VIDEO Trump declares Iran blockade back, says US will charge Hormuz fees UPDATE VIDEO State TV says Iran fired ‘warning shots’ at two ships in Hormuz Latest Updates Saudi Arabia tells UN forum that development hinges on decisive choices, not favorable circumstances US releases video of first sea drone strike on Iran port facility US missions in UAE suspend consular appointments over ‘security situation’ UK pledges $13.4m for Gaza recovery, urges faster action on peace plan Controversy stalks Argentina at World Cup with allegations of FBI probe, rigged referee calls Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST How fiber-optic drones are changing the face of modern warfare MIDDLE EAST What France hopes to gain from re-engaging with Syria FOOTBALL Analysis: Why does North African football outperform the Middle East on the world stage? EN
