Arab News Sunday . June 28, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Sport Football World Lebanon’s Aoun hopes US will press Israel to withdraw from southern areas Previous Pause Next Home Air raid siren sounded for a second time in Bahrain Air raid siren sounded for a second time in Bahrain Previous UPDATE 1 / 2 This screen grab taken from handout footage released by Bahrain TV on June 11, 2026, shows damage to buildings and vehicles in Bahrain reportedly caused by debris from intercepted drones. (Bahrain TV / AFP File photo) UPDATE 2 / 2 Smoke rises from a high-rise building following a drone attack in Kuwait City on March 8, 2026. Iran has again launched drone and missile strikes on Kuwait in retaliation against US strikes on targets near Iran's vital Strait of Hormuz. (AFP file photo) Next Short Url https://arab.news/2krgf Updated 28 June 2026 07:10 AFP June 28, 2026 07:02 Follow Iran announced earlier that it had launched strikes against the US Fifth Fleet base in Bahrain and another base in Kuwait Air raid sirens sounded for a second time in Bahrain on Sunday, the country’s interior ministry said. “The siren has been sounded … Citizens and residents are urged to remain calm and head to the nearest safe place,” the Interior Ministry said on X. Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said on Sunday that it carried out strikes against Kuwait and Bahrain in retaliation for US attacks on Iranian territory, warning any further aggression would be met with a “crushing response.” Iran and the United States have both accused the other of violating their fragile ceasefire, straining negotiations meant to end the Middle East war. The Guards “destroyed eight important US military facilities at the Ali Al-Salem base in Kuwait and at the Fifth Fleet naval base in Port Salman in Bahrain,” they said in a statement. “Any enemy aggression, whatever the pretext, even against insignificant targets... will have a crushing response,” the Guards added. A memorandum of understanding was reached in mid-June under Pakistan’s mediation, aimed at putting a lasting end to the war. The text signed by the United States and Iran said both countries, and their respective allies, were “not to initiate any war or any military operation against each other and to refrain from the threat or use of force against each other.” The US military bombed Iran for a second consecutive day on Saturday, in what it said was retaliation for an Iranian attack on a tanker in the vital Strait of Hormuz. In the memorandum of understanding Iran agreed “safe passage of commercial vessels with no charge, for 60 days only, from the Arabian Gulf to the Sea of Oman, and vice versa” in the strait. The Guards said on Sunday measures had been taken to control traffic through the strait and that violating ships would be dealt with more firmly than before. They had also warned on Thursday against any passage through the strait without their permission. It came after Oman, which shares the opposite shore with Iran, flagged an alternative route. The only passage authorized by Iran is through a corridor running along its coast at this time. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN BAHRAIN IRAN RELATED Trump threatens to annihilate Iran after new exchange of attacks Saudi Arabia condemns Iranian drone attack on Bahrain Latest Updates Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? Air raid siren sounded for a second time in Bahrain Lebanon’s Aoun hopes US will press Israel to withdraw from southern areas Iraqi forces raid Baghdad’s Green Zone amid arrest reports Congo rally to a 3-1 win against Uzbekistan to seal place in the World Cup knockouts Editor’s Choice FOOTBALL Will World Cup failure usher in moment of reckoning for Saudi football? MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon’s conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk MIDDLE EAST Could Israel’s Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? EN
