Arab News Tuesday . July 07, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT SAUDI FOOTBALL SAUDI PRO LEAGUE FOOTBALL MOTORSPORT TENNIS CRICKET GOLF E-SPORT PODCAST WORLD CUP 2026 RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Media Middle East Sport Art & Culture World Saudi Arabia SRMG Media Solutions, TikTok strike advertising partnership Previous Pause Next Home Messi v Salah in World Cup last-16 showdown Messi v Salah in World Cup last-16 showdown Egypt’s Mohamed Salah during training — FIFA World Cup 2026 — Egypt Training — Atlanta United Training Center, Atlanta, Jul. 6, 2026. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/wjhsa Updated 07 July 2026 16:02 AFP July 07, 2026 15:59 Follow Scaloni said: “Egypt is also a good rival … It’s a very good team” “Salah is a great player — it will be a pleasure to face him” KANSAS CITY, USA: Lionel Messi’s Argentina face Egypt for a place in the World Cup quarter-finals on Tuesday as the maestro looks to reclaim the lead in a fiercely contested Golden Boot race. For the latest updates, follow us @ArabNewsSport The defending champions meet the African nation, spearheaded by Mohamed Salah, in Atlanta for the right to play Switzerland or Colombia in the semifinals. Argentina survived a huge scare from World Cup first-timers Cape Verde in the last 32, edging through courtesy of Diney Borges’ own goal in energy-sapping extra time. They will hope to resume normal service against Egypt, who have never been beyond the round of 16 on football’s biggest stage. “We are on the alert just like we were before the match against Cape Verde,” said Argentina boss Lionel Scaloni. “Egypt is also a good rival. “It’s a very good team. They have important players and a coach that has been working with them for a while now. They play good football and always make it difficult for their rivals. “Salah is a great player — it will be a pleasure to face him. Our team knows how to face these great players and we always work hard for it.” Scaloni confirmed Messi, 39, is fit to start despite playing the full 120 minutes last week against Cape Verde. Messi, France star Kylian Mbappe and Norway’s Erling Haaland all have seven goals in the race for the Golden Boot, with the Frenchman leading the way due to his two assists. Messi and Mbappe are also locked in a battle for the title of leading goalscorer in World Cup history, with the Argentine just one goal ahead, on 20. The South Americans know they will need to up their game against unbeaten Egypt, who eliminated Australia on penalties in the last 32. Salah, currently without a club after leaving Liverpool, has scored just once in four matches so far. Egypt coach Hossam Hassan said he had been preparing his players “regardless of the color of the opponent’s shirt, or what name they have, and what ranking they have.” “This is a World Cup, a great opportunity to prove ourselves and that we belong here,” he said. - Dangerous Diaz - Switzerland and Colombia meet in Vancouver in another clash between two unbeaten teams. The South Americans, supported by hordes of passionate yellow-clad fans, have been tipped as dark horses for the tournament. Nestor Lorenzo’s men have conceded just one goal so far and boast the attacking prowess of Luis Diaz and 2014 World Cup Golden Boot winner James Rodriguez. Switzerland have not reached the quarter-finals since 1954, when they hosted the tournament, but impressed in a 2-0 win against Algeria in the last 32. All four teams will be vying to join the heavyweight line-up for the last eight so far — France, Morocco, Norway, England, Spain and Belgium. Spain ended Cristiano Ronaldo’s World Cup dream on Monday, beating Portugal 1-0 while Belgium crushed the United States 4-1. Defeat for Mauricio Pochettino’s men means none of the host nations remain in the 2026 tournament following the earlier exits of Canada and Mexico. The build-up to the game in Seattle was overshadowed by controversy after forward Folarin Balogun was cleared to play despite being sent off against Bosnia and Herzegovina last week. It emerged that the bombshell ruling followed a personal call by President Donald Trump to FIFA chief Gianni Infantino urging him to review Balogun’s punishment. Follow Topics: FIFA WORLD CUP 2026 WORLD CUP 2026 EGYPT MOHAMAD SALAH LIONEL MESSI ARGENTINA COLUMBIA LUIS DIAZ RELATED VIDEO Salah says ‘had to do it’ after coolest of penalties in World Cup win Salah fitness race in focus for Egypt ahead of Australia clash Latest Updates Jeddah exhibition brings together 3 generations of Arab artists UNESCO workshops focus on Arab education quality Kingdom urges greater role for youth volunteers in achieving UN goals Italy arrests two over alleged spying for Russia Gulf Arab nations condemn Damascus bomb attack Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What Israel’s UN sexual violence blacklist could mean for future accountability WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News EN
