Arab News Saturday . June 20, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Lifestyle Middle East World Saudi Arabia Early date harvest season begins in Kingdom Previous Pause Next Home Gaza health officials say Israeli strikes kill five Gaza health officials say Israeli strikes kill five UPDATE Displaced Palestinians carry the body of a man killed in an Israeli airstrike for burial from the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, on June 18, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/rt85v Updated 20 June 2026 15:45 AFP June 20, 2026 09:56 Follow Israel and Hamas trade near-daily accusations of truce violations Gaza City’s Al-Shifa hospital confirmed receiving the bodies of four members of the Al-Safadi family GAZA CITY: Gaza health officials said Israeli strikes on Saturday killed five people, including four members of the same family, in the latest violence to rock the Palestinian territory despite a ceasefire. Israel and Hamas trade near-daily accusations of truce violations and the Gaza Strip remains gripped by bloodshed as progress on permanently ending the war remains stalled. An overnight Israeli airstrike on an apartment building in the Sabra neighborhood of Gaza City killed four members of the Al-Safadi family, including the husband, wife and their two daughters, according to the civil defense agency, a rescue service that operates under Hamas authority. It said the strike also injured 12 others. Gaza City’s Al-Shifa hospital confirmed receiving the bodies of four members of the Al-Safadi family, including two children. “Around 2 o’clock, my cousins were asleep when a missile struck them. They have no connection to Hamas, nor are they involved in anything. They’re just innocent children,” said Nael Al-Safadi, a relative. AFP footage from the scene showed an exterior wall of the apartment blown off, exposing rubble, clothes, mattresses and other household belongings strewn across the shattered interior. “By God, I still feel as though I’m in a dream — I never expected this to happen to us,” Mohammad Al-Safadi, who survived the strike, told AFP. “I’m a civilian. I swear to God I’ve never carried a weapon or fired one. What do you want from me? Go after whoever you’re after, what’s my fault in this?“ Al-Shifa hospital, meanwhile, said it had received one body following a separate Israeli drone strike near an intersection in the north of Gaza City. The Israeli military did not immediately respond to a request for comment on two incidents. At least 1,012 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza since the ceasefire took effect on October 10 last year, according to the territory’s health ministry, which operates under Hamas authority and whose figures are considered reliable by the United Nations. The Israeli army has reported five deaths in its ranks during the same period. Restrictions imposed on media outlets and limited access in Gaza prevent AFP from independently verifying tolls or freely covering the violence there. Follow Topics: WAR IN GAZA ISRAEL HAMAS RELATED PHOTOS UN aid chief demands ‘dignity’ for Gaza Strip’s population SPECIAL VIDEO Gaza ceasefire ‘failing’ as hunger, rats and rubble define daily life, UN humanitarian chief warns Latest Updates At least 15 migrant bodies wash ashore in eastern Libya, sources say REVIEW: ‘X-Men ’97’ Season 2 proves the wait was worth it Early date harvest season begins in Kingdom 15,288 held for residency, labor, border violations Two Syrian soldiers killed in northeast Aleppo attack, state TV says Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST What does the US-Iran agreement reveal about the true winners and losers of the war? MIDDLE EAST How Israel’s new ‘security belts’ could impact Middle East stability MIDDLE EAST Why UNFPA says ‘we are not leaving Gaza’ despite mounting challenges EN
