Arab News Tuesday . June 16, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Food & Health World Middle East Saudi Arabia Sport UK highlights $190m commitment to Yemen aid and backs detainee-release deal Previous Pause Next Home Israeli drone strikes kill at least 4 in Lebanon, Iran threatens to respond Israeli drone strikes kill at least 4 in Lebanon, Iran threatens to respond Israeli drone strikes targeted three vehicles in southern Lebanon on Tuesday, killing at least four people and wounding others, Lebanon’s National News Agency (NNA) reported. (X/@nabed_lebnan_w) Short Url https://arab.news/6gh5t Updated 16 June 2026 22:42 REUTERS June 16, 2026 20:03 Follow Two people were killed in a double-tap strike, with a drone hitting a car in the village of Mayfadoun Another drone strike ‌on ⁠the town of ⁠Shoukin killed two other people, said NNA BEIRUT: Israeli drone strikes targeted three vehicles in southern Lebanon on Tuesday, killing at least four people and wounding others, Lebanon’s National News Agency (NNA) reported. Iran's military threatened to respond to the strikes despite a deal between Tehran and Washington ending the Middle East war, including in Lebanon. "If the child-killing army of the Zionist regime does not put an end to its acts of aggression in southern Lebanon, it should await a harsh response from the powerful armed forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran," said the Iranian military's central command Khatam al-Anbiya. It added that Israel had violated the ceasefire in Lebanon "84 times" since the deal was announced. Two people were killed in a double-tap strike, with a drone hitting a car in the village of Mayfadoun followed by a second strike ‌after people ‌had gathered at the scene. Another drone strike ‌on ⁠the town of ⁠Shoukin killed two other people, the agency said. Fighting in Lebanon between Israel and Iran-backed Hezbollah has eased but has not completely stopped following the announcement of an interim peace deal between the United States and Iran on Monday. Throughout Tuesday, the Israeli military pounded southern Lebanon with drone strikes, a missile launch, and artillery strikes, according to ⁠NNA, while drones hovered over the capital Beirut. There ‌was no immediate comment from ‌the Israeli military on the reported strikes. Israeli troops continue to occupy large ‌swathes of southern Lebanon and have flattened dozens of villages there ‌and emptied them of their residents. In a statement, Israel’s military said it had intercepted rockets launched by Hezbollah at an area of southern Lebanon that was witnessing operations by Israeli soldiers. The military also said it ‌had struck a launcher that had fired some of the rockets. The Israeli military said it identified ⁠a suspicious ⁠vehicle where its soldiers were operating and fired a warning shot toward it before conducting a strike “to remove the threat.” Lebanon has been enmeshed in the wider regional war centered on Iran since Hezbollah launched strikes on Israel in support of Tehran on March 2. Israel responded by launching an offensive that has killed more than 3,820 people and displaced around 1.2 million people, according to Lebanese authorities. At least 28 Israeli soldiers have been killed in Lebanon in the latest conflict, according to a Reuters tally of Israeli military announcements, and four Israeli civilians have been killed in Hezbollah attacks. Hezbollah has not said how many of its fighters have been killed. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH WAR IN IRAN RELATED Hezbollah thanks Iran negotiator for help stopping Israel’s Lebanon war UPDATE Hezbollah says US-Iran agreement covers Lebanon, warns Israel against violations Latest Updates Tunisia repatriates nearly 100 sub-Saharan migrants in ‘voluntary return’ Canada face Qatar in Vancouver with wide-open Group B in focus at World Cup UK highlights $190m commitment to Yemen aid and backs detainee-release deal Saudi Arabia sports minister vows affordable and safe World Cup in 2034 What We Are Reading Today: ‘Artificially Yours’ by Valerie Tiberius Editor’s Choice WORLD How immigration fears and far-right politics are reshaping Britain a decade after Brexit SAUDI ARABIA Frankly Speaking: Where does the Saudi-India relationship go next? MIDDLE EAST What the discovery of Assad-era chemical weapons means for Syria EN
