Arab News Tuesday . June 30, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Sport World Middle East Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? Previous Pause Next Home UN aid chief warns El-Obeid risks becoming ‘another El-Fasher’ as drone strikes escalate in Sudan UN aid chief warns El-Obeid risks becoming ‘another El-Fasher’ as drone strikes escalate in Sudan SPECIAL Women and children queue to receive free food being distributed in Al-Mohayra camp for displaced people, near the city of El-Obeid, in the southern Kordofan region, on June 29, 2026. (AFP) Short Url https://arab.news/nsg6v Updated 30 June 2026 23:08 EPHREM KOSSAIFY June 30, 2026 22:56 Follow Civilians wanting to leave city must be safe to do so, says Tom Fletcher, and ‘whether they leave or remain they must be protected and have access to the essentials for survival’ ‘Too often in this brutal war, clear warnings have been ignored. Civilians have paid the price. The international community must make itself heard,’ he adds NEW YORK CITY: The UN’s top humanitarian official warned on Tuesday that there was a risk El-Obeid, the besieged capital of Sudan’s North Kordofan region, would become “another El-Fasher,” as escalating drone strikes and a deteriorating humanitarian situation threaten hundreds of thousands of civilians sheltering in the city. “I am again sounding the alarm on the escalating violence and rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in Sudan’s North Kordofan region,” said Tom Fletcher, under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator. “We cannot allow El-Obeid to become another El-Fasher.” There are hundreds of thousands of civilians in El-Obeid, he said, including many displaced by fighting elsewhere in Sudan who had sought refuge in the city. Intensifying drone attacks are killing civilians across the region, raising the risk of deeper human suffering, he added. The strikes are also disrupting access to lifesaving supplies of drinking water and electricity, Fletcher warned, a particularly dangerous development at this time of year. “With the rainy season approaching, safe water is critical to reduce the risk of cholera and other deadly waterborne diseases,” he said. Despite the dangers, humanitarian organizations continue to operate in the city, which serves as a critical staging point for wider aid efforts. “The humanitarian community is working around the clock to help people in El-Obeid, a vital hub for relief operations across the region,” he said. Sudan has been locked in a civil war between the Sudanese Armed Forces and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces since April 2023. El-Fasher, the capital of North Darfur State, fell to the RSF in October 2025 after a grueling, 18-month siege, triggering attacks and massacres targeting certain ethnic groups that an independent UN fact-finding mission concluded amounted to genocide. Fletcher called for an immediate halt to attacks, including drone strikes, on populated areas and civilian infrastructure in El-Obeid, and demanded that civilians be allowed to leave the city without fear of harm. “Civilians who wish to leave El-Obeid must be able to do so safely,” he said. “Whether they leave or remain, they must be protected and have access to the essentials for survival.” He stressed the need for aid agencies to be granted unimpeded access, saying: “Humanitarian workers must be able to move safely and without impediment to reach people in need.” Fletcher also called on everyone involved in the war to abide by the principles of international law. “All parties to the conflict have clear obligations under international humanitarian law to protect civilians, including humanitarians, and to facilitate rapid, unhindered humanitarian relief,” he said. In a stark warning to the international community about the danger of inaction, he invoked the earlier devastation in El-Fasher and said: “Too often in this brutal war, clear warnings have been ignored. Civilians have paid the price. The international community must make itself heard. We cannot say we were not warned.” Follow Topics: SUDAN UNREST EL-OBEID RELATED Humanitarian disaster looms in Sudan as Rapid Support Forces encircle El-Obeid, UN warns UN envoy says Jeddah deal can still anchor future Sudan peace talks, as fears grow over El-Obeid Latest Updates UN aid chief warns El-Obeid risks becoming ‘another El-Fasher’ as drone strikes escalate in Sudan Germany under threat from extremists, foreign powers: security service Restoration work begins on main Damascus Jewish cemetery Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? Coventry manager Frank Lampard signs new contract to 2029 Editor’s Choice MIDDLE EAST Analysis: Could the Lebanon-Israel framework agreement open the door to stability? MIDDLE EAST Iraq PM to Asharq Al-Awsat: Corruption crackdown Is irreversible, arms must be under state control MIDDLE EAST How sanitation collapse deepened Gaza’s public health emergency EN
