Arab News Saturday . June 27, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Offbeat Sport Site of deadly Swiss ski resort fire will never reopen as a bar: regional chief Previous Pause Next Home Israel military says targeted suspected militants in south Lebanon airstrike Israel military says targeted suspected militants in south Lebanon airstrike UPDATE Israeli tanks manoeuvre in Lebanon, after Israel and Lebanon signed a framework agreement following U.S.-mediated talks, as seen from northern Israel, June 27, 2026. (Reuters) Short Url https://arab.news/nue24 Updated 27 June 2026 20:03 REUTERS AFP June 27, 2026 10:19 Follow IDF spokeswoman said Saturday‚Äôs airstrike targeted ‚Äúsuspected terrorists who posted a threat‚Äù in Nabatieh area Israeli defense minister Israel Katz vowed to respond with ‚Äúgreat force‚Äù if Iran attempted to prevent implementation of the agreement with Lebanon JERUSALEM: The Israeli military said it carried out an airstrike on Saturday targeting suspected militants in the Nabatieh area of southern Lebanon, the first such attack since Washington announced a framework agreement between Israel and Lebanon. On Friday, Israel, Lebanon and the United States signed a trilateral agreement aimed at paving the way for a broader peace deal between the two Middle East nations. An Israeli military spokeswoman told AFP that Saturday‚Äôs airstrike targeted ‚Äúsuspected terrorists who posted a threat to IDF soldiers‚Äù in the Nabatieh area. ‚ÄúThe results of the strike are still being assessed.‚Äù According to the National News Agency (NNA), Israeli warplanes hit an unidentified target in Nabatieh al-Fawqa at around 6:30 pm (1530 GMT) local time. Earlier in the afternoon, drones carried out four strikes on the town square and the Al-Manzala neighborhood. The NNA said an Israeli drone struck in Nabatieh Al-Fawqa, which lies outside a security zone ‚ÅÝshown on a map ‚Äåpublished ‚Äåby Israel of an ‚Äåexpanded zone its ‚Äåtroops control in southern Lebanon. Israeli defense minister Israel Katz vowed on Saturday to respond with ‚Äúgreat force‚Äù if Iran attacked Israel in an attempt to prevent the implementation of the agreement with Lebanon. ‚ÄúIf Iran tries to attack Israel to prevent the implementation of the agreement, we will act against it with great force,‚Äù Israel Katz said in a video statement, adding that the agreement with Lebanon had dealt a ‚Äústrategic blow to the Iranian axis.‚Äù The Israeli military told Reuters it had carried ‚Äåout the strike, using a drone as ‚ÅÝno ‚ÅÝIsraeli troops were in the immediate area. It said it targeted an individual who posed a threat to its forces, without providing further details or evidence. Lebanon was drawn into the broader Middle East war on March 2 when Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah fired rockets at Israel to avenge the killing of Iran‚Äôs supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in US-Israeli strikes. Israel responded with heavy airstrikes and a ground invasion in southern Lebanon, where its troops occupy swathes of territory and have been carrying out extensive demolitions of homes and other buildings. Friday‚Äôs US-brokered agreement followed five rounds of negotiations between Israeli and Lebanese officials aimed at ending the fighting. The deal ‚Äúbegins to put in place a framework for lasting peace and security,‚Äù US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said at the signing ceremony. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs the beginning of the beginning. There‚Äôs a lot of work ahead.‚Äù According to the text of the agreement, Israel and Lebanon ‚Äúdeclare their intent to conclusively end the conflict, address its underlying causes, and to therewith formally conclude any state of war between them.‚Äù Lebanon does not recognize Israel and the two have officially been at war for decades, although Israel has largely fought Hezbollah and other non-state actors in its conflicts in Lebanon. Despite the agreement, major differences remain between Israel and Hezbollah. Follow Topics: BATTLEFIELD LEBANON ISRAEL HEZBOLLAH RELATED UPDATE Israel orders residents in southern Lebanon to leave, says killed 7 Hezbollah militants in area VIDEO In beachside city, Lebanese try to shake off Israel-Hezbollah war Latest Updates Deniz Undav‚Äôs World Cup success for Germany lifts Yazidi and Kurdish pride Vespa riders take to roads in Rome to mark 80th birthday Site of deadly Swiss ski resort fire will never reopen as a bar: regional chief George Russell snatches pole, Kimi Antonelli fourth for Austria Grand Prix grid Saudi FM discusses regional tensions with Egyptian and Qatari counterparts Editor‚Äôs Choice MIDDLE EAST How Lebanon‚Äôs conflict is putting pregnant women and girls at greater risk MIDDLE EAST Could Israel‚Äôs Hebron planning takeover become a blueprint for annexing the West Bank? WORLD What UK‚Äôs change of guard means for Middle East ties EN
