Arab News Monday . July 06, 2026 SAUDI ARABIA MIDDLE EAST WORLD BUSINESS MEDIA LIFESTYLE OPINION SPORT RESEARCH & STUDIES PODCAST LATEST NEWS Middle East Saudi Arabia World Business & Economy Jordan, Uzbekistan foreign ministers meet in Tashkent Previous Pause Next Home Trump says there will either be a deal with Iran or US will ‘finish the job’ Trump says there will either be a deal with Iran or US will ‘finish the job’ Previous 0 seconds of 45 secondsVolume 0% President Donald Trump speaks after ringing the opening bell for the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq in the Oval Office at the White House, July 6, 2026, in Washington. (AP) Next Short Url https://arab.news/vxe63 Updated 06 July 2026 19:54 REUTERS July 06, 2026 15:50 Follow “We’re either going to make a deal or we’re going to finish the job. OK. And it won’t be tough to finish ‌the job,” Trump said WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said on Monday the United States would either reach ​a deal with Iran or “finish the job,” renewing his threat of military action as Tehran projects defiance following the funeral of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Indirect US-Iran talks ended last week without any public sign of ‌headway toward ‌a lasting peace, ​despite ‌a ⁠60-day ceasefire intended ​to create ⁠space for diplomacy following the US and Israeli strikes that triggered the conflict. “We’re either going to make a deal or we’re going to finish the job. OK. And it ⁠won’t be tough to finish ‌the job. I’d ‌rather make a deal, because ​I don’t ‌want to affect 91 million people,” Trump ‌told reporters in the Oval Office. “We can knock down their bridges in one hour, we can knock out their energy ‌supply.... They don’t have any money now. We haven’t given them ⁠any ⁠money.” Trump spoke after Khamenei’s weekend funeral where, rather than looking weakened by the war that began with US and Israeli strikes on February 28, Iranians appeared to be defiant, united and determined to shape what comes next. The 60-day ceasefire was intended by Washington to revive diplomacy on stopping ​Iran developing ​a nuclear arsenal. Follow Topics: WAR IN IRAN US PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP RELATED Trump posts a doctored photo of the Obamas and Air Force One with graffiti spray-painted on plane UPDATE VIDEO Iranian mourners call for vengeance on Trump during Khamenei funeral procession Latest Updates Lebanese Christian villages reject Netanyahu’s annexation claim in plea for state’s return Six Palestinians injured in settler attack on Hebron village Jordan, Uzbekistan foreign ministers meet in Tashkent Trump says there will either be a deal with Iran or US will ‘finish the job’ Austrian court sentences Assad-era Syrian torturers to 8 years in jail Editor’s Choice WORLD How Oxford Union’s first Palestinian president became Britain’s most scrutinized student leader MIDDLE EAST Saudi diplomacy is key to ending Sudan war, EU special representative for the Horn of Africa tells Arab News WORLD America at 250: Why the US still wrestles with its ideals at home and its role abroad EN
